6.2.9	Features supported by the NFDiscovery service
The syntax of the supportedFeatures attribute is defined in clause 5.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.571 [7].
The following features are defined for the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service.
Table 6.2.9-1: Features of supportedFeatures attribute used by Nnrf_NFDiscovery service

Feature Number	Feature	M/O	Description
1	Complex-Query	O	Support of Complex Query expression (see clause 6.2.3.2.3.1)
2	Query-Params-Ext1	O	Support of the following query parameters: - limit - max-payload-size - required-features - pdu-session-types
3	Query-Param-Analytics	O	Support of the query parameters for Analytics identifier: - event-id-list - nwdaf-event-list
4	MAPDU	O	This feature indicates whether the NRF supports selection of UPF with ATSSS capability.
5	Query-Params-Ext2	O	Support of the following query parameters: - requester-nf-instance-id - upf-ue-ip-addr-ind - pfd-data - target-snpn - af-ee-data - w-agf-info - tngf-info - twif-info - target-nf-set-id - target-nf-service-set-id - preferred-tai - nef-id - preferred-nf-instances - notification-type - serving-scope - internal-group-identity - preferred-api-versions - v2x-support-ind - redundant-gtpu - redundant-transport - lmf-id - an-node-type - rat-type - ipups - scp-domain-list - address-domain - ipv4-addr - ipv6-prefix - served-nf-set-id - remote-plmn-id - data-forwarding - preferred-full-plmn - requester-snpn-list - max-payload-size-ext - client-type
6	Service-Map	M	This feature indicates whether it is supported to identify the list of NF Service Instances as a map (i.e. the "nfServiceList" attribute of NFProfile is supported).
7	Query-Params-Ext3	O	Support of the following query parameters: - ims-private-identity - ims-public-identity - msisdn - requester-plmn-specific-snssai-list - n1-msg-class - n2-info-class
8	Query-Params-Ext4	O	Support of the following query parameters: - realm-id - storage-id
9	Query-Param-vSmf-Capability	O	Support of the query parameters for V-SMF Capability: - vsmf-support-ind
10	Enh-NF-Discovery	O	Enhanced NF Discovery This feature indicates whether it is supported to return the nfInstanceList IE in the NF Discovery response.
11	Query-SBIProtoc17	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Service Based Interface Protocol Improvements defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - preferred-vendor-specific-features - preferred-vendor-specific-nf-features - home-pub-key-id - pgw-ip - preferences-precedence - preferred-pgw-ind - v2x-capability - shared-data-id
12	SCPDRI	O	SCP Domain Routing Information  An NRF supporting this feature shall allow a service consumer (i.e. a SCP) to get the SCP Domain Routing Information and subscribe/unsubscribe to the change of SCP Domain Routing Information with following service operations: -	SCPDomainRoutingInfoGet (see clause 5.3.2.3) -	SCPDomainRoutingInfoSubscribe (see clause 5.3.2.4) -	SCPDomainRoutingInfoUnsubscribe (see clause 5.3.2.6)  A service consumer (i.e. a SCP) supporting this feature shall be able to handle SCPDomainRoutingInfoNotify as specified in clause 5.3.2.5, if subscribed to the change of SCP Domain Routing Information in the NRF.
13	Query-Upf-Pfcp	O	This feature indicates whether the NRF supports selection of UPF with required UP function features as defined in 3GPP TS 29.244 [21].
14	Query-5G-ProSe	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Proximity based Services in 5GS defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - prose-support-ind - prose-capability
15	NSAC	O	This feature indicates the NSACF service capability. Support of the following query parameters: - nsacf-capability
16	Query-MBS	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Multicast and Broadcast Services defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - mbs-session-id-list - mbsmf-serving-area - area-session-id
17	Query-eNA-PH2	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Enhanced Network Automation Phase 2 defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - analytics-aggregation-ind - serving-nf-set-id - serving-nf-type - ml-analytics-info-list - analytics-metadata-prov-ind
18	Query-eLCS	O	Support of the following query parameters, for 5G LCS service: - gmlc-number
19	Query-eEDGE-5GC	O	Support of the following query parameters, for enhancement of support for Edge Computing in 5GC defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - upf-n6-ip - tai-list The query parameter tai-list may be used to discover NEF.
20	Collocated-NF-Selection	O	Support of selecting a collocated NF supporting multiple NF types.
21	Query-ENPN	O	Support of the following query parameter for the enhanced support of Non-Public Networks defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - support-onboarding-capability - target-hni - remote-snpn-id
22	Query-ID_UAS	O	Support of the following query parameters, for remote Identification of Unmanned Aerial Systems defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - uas-nf-functionality-ind
23	NRFSET	O	Support of the NRF Set feature as defined in clause 5.3.2.1.  All the NRF service instances of an NRF supporting this feature shall support the NRFSET feature.
24	Query-Nw-Resolution	O	Support for the following query parameters: - target-nw-resolution
25	Query-Param-iSmf-Capability	O	Support of the query parameters for I-SMF Capability: - ismf-support-ind
26	Query-SBIProtoc17-Ext1	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Service Based Interface Protocol Improvements defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - exclude-nfinst-list - exclude-nfservinst-list - exclude-nfserviceset-list - exclude-nfset-list
27	Query-Upf-IpIndex	O	Support of the query parameters for UPF selection with IpIndex: - ipv4-index - ipv6-index
28	Query-eNA-PH2-Ext1	O	Support of the following query parameters, for extension of Enhanced Network Automation Phase 2 defined in 3GPP Rel-17: - preferred-analytics-delays
29	Query-HLC	O	Support of the query parameters for AMF selection with High Latency Communication capability: - high-latency-com
30	Query-SBIProtoc18	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Service Based Interface Protocol Improvements defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - ext-preferred-locality - n32-purposes - preferred-features - sxa-ind - remote-plmn-id-roaming - nf-tai-list-ind - complete-search-result - additional-snssais
31	Complete-Profile-Discovery	O	Support discovery of complete NF profiles (including authorization attributes such as the "allowedXXX" attributes of NFProfile and NFService data types) of NF instances matching the query parameters with the following query parameter: - complete-profile
32	Query-UPEAS	O	Support of the following query parameter, for UPF enhancement for Exposure and SBA defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - upf-event-list
33	Enh-NF-Discovery-Ext1	O	Support of the following query parameter defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - target-nf-instance-id-list
34	Query-NG-RTC	O	Support of the following query parameters for NG_RTC defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - ims-domain-name - media-capability-list
35	Query-eLCS-PH3	O	Support of the following query parameters, for 5G LCS Phase 3 service defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - pru-tai - af-data - pru-support-ind - preferred-up-positioning-ind
36	Query-eNA-PH3	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Enhanced Network Automation Phase 3 defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - ml-accuracy-checking-ind - analytics-accuracy-checking-ind - ml-model-storage-ind - data-storage-ind - data-subscription-relocation-support-ind - roaming-exchange-ind
37	Query-A2X	O	Support of the following query parameters, for A2X in 5GS defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - a2x-support-ind - a2x-capability
38	Allowed-ruleset	O	Support receiving ruleSets in NF (Service) profile
39	Query-AIMLsys	O	Support for the following query parameters, for System Support for AI/ML-based Services defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - multi-mem-af-sess-qos-ind - member-ue-sel-assist-ind
40	Canary-Release	O	Support of "CANARY_RELEASE" value for NFStatus and NFServiceStatus, used for canary testing.  The NRF shall not return, in the discovery response, NF Instances, or NF Service Instances, whose NFStatus or NFService status respectively is set to value "CANARY_RELEASE", unless the consumer of the discovery service has indicated support of the "Canary-Release" feature.
41	Query-UPF-Selection-N3GPP	O	Support of the following query parameters, for selection of preferred UPF for PDU sessions via non-3GPP access: - upf-select-epdg-info  An NRF supporting this feature shall also support discovery of the preferred UPF(s) for a W-AGF/TNGF/TWIF using the following query parameters: - w-agf-info - tngf-info - twif-info
42	Query-5G- RangingSlPos	O	Support of the following query parameter, for Ranging and Sidelink positioning in 5GS defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - ranging-sl-pos-support-ind
43	Query-eNS-PH2	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Enhanced Network Slice Phase 2 defined in 3GPP Rel-17 onwards: - nsac-sai
44	RID-NfGroupId-Mapping	O	Support the capability of mapping between Routing Indicator and NF Group ID by the NRF.  If the consumer of the discovery service has not indicated support of the "RID-NfGroupId-Mapping" feature, the NRF shall not return in the discovery response NF instances (of UDMs and AUSFs) containing (in "UdmInfo" and "AusfInfo" respectively) an NF Group ID and no Routing Indicators to indicate that the mapping between both will be done by the NRF (see clauses 6.1.6.2.7 and 6.1.6.2.8).
45	Query_UEPO	O	Support of the following query parameter(s) for PCF: - ursp-delivery-eps-support-ind
46	DNN-List-Optimization	O	Support of dnnSmfInfoListId within SnssaiSmfInfoItem, and dnnUpfInfoListId within SnssaiUpfInfoItem If the consumer of the discovery service has not indicated support of the DNN-List-Optimization feature, the NRF shall provide the complete list of DNNs in dnnSmfInfoList or the dnnUpfInfoList.
47	Shared-Data	O	Support of Shared Data IDs in search results. If supported, NFProfiles within search results may contain a sharedProfileDataId identifying shared profile data and NFServices may contain a sharedServiceDataId identifying shared service data. If not supported by the consumer, the NRF shall substitute values of the referenced shared data into the NF profile it returns to the consumer. NRFs supporting this feature shall also support the Shared-Data-Retrieval feature of the NFManagement service.
48	Query-EDGE-Ph2	O	Support of the following query parameter, for the support of Edge Computing Phase 2 defined in 3GPP Rel-18: - dns-sec-protoc
49	Query-TAI-LIST	O	Support discovery of target NF with service area within a list of TAIs. The feature supports the following query parameter(s): - tai-list The query parameter is applicable to discover any target NF type.
50	Query-eNA-Ph3_EXT	O	Support the discovery of an NWDAF containing AnLF, whose vendor Id is in the ML Model Interoperability indicator of the NWDAF containing MTLF. See clause 5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.288 [34] and clause 6.3.13 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The feature supports the following query parameter(s): - vendor-ids
51	NFsel_by_tPLMN	O	Support of indirect communication with and without delegated discovery with NF selection at target domain, defined in 3GPP Rel-19. See clause 5.3.2.2.3. The feature supports the following query parameter(s) by a requester that is an NRF or a SCP: - ind-com-with-del-disc - ind-com-wo-del-disc
52	Query-Preferred-Serving-Scope	O	Support of the following query parameter, for H-SMF Discovery in Indirect Network Sharing in 3GPP Rel-19: - preferred-serving-scope
53	Query-UPEAS_Ph2	O	Support of the following query parameters for UPF enhancement for Exposure and SBA Phase 2, defined in 3GPP Rel-19: - upf-packet-inspection-func - preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func - operator-config-capabilities - preferred-operator-config-capabilities
54	Enh-PCSCF-Disc	O	Support Enhancement to P-CSCF Discovery  An NRF supporting this feature shall support following parameter: - support-serving-plmn  An NRF supporting this feature shall also allow to use the following parameters to discovery P-CSCF: - supi - gpsi - group-id-list
55	UPF-2G3G-SUPPORT	O	Support discovery of UPF serving 2G/3G Access with following parameters: - 2g3g-location-area
56	Query-AIML-CN	O	Support of the following query parameters, defined in 3GPP Rel-19: - vfl-caps (for the discovery of NWDAF and AF which support VFL model training) - aiml-positioning-ind (for the discovery of LMFs that support the AI/ML positioning capability)
57	Query-EDGE-Ph3	O	Support of the following query parameter, for the support of Edge Computing Phase 3 defined in 3GPP Rel-19: - lom-tai-list
58	Query-PRA-AMF	O	Support of the following query parameter to discovery AMF instance configured with certain Core Network predefined PRA ID(s): - pra-id-list
59	Query-AIoT	O	Support of AIOTF discovery based on AIOTF specific query parameters. The feature supports the following query parameter(s): - aiot-area-ids - aiot-device-id
60	Query-Smf-IpIndex	O	Support of the query parameters for SMF selection with IpIndex: - ipv4-index - ipv6-index
61	Query-SBIProtoc19	O	Support of the following query parameters, for Service Based Interface Protocol Improvements defined in 3GPP Rel-19: - any-ue-ind
Feature number: The order number of the feature within the supportedFeatures attribute (starting with 1). Feature: A short name that can be used to refer to the bit and to the feature. M/O: Defines if the implementation of the feature is mandatory ("M") or optional ("O"). Description: A clear textual description of the feature. NOTE 1:	An NRF that advertises support of a given feature shall support all the query parameters associated with the feature. An NRF may support none or a subset of the query parameters of features that it does not advertise as supported. NOTE 2:	For a release under development, it is recommended to define new features for new query parameters by grouping them per 3GPP work item. Any definition of new query parameters in a frozen release requires a new feature definition.	Feature number: The order number of the feature within the supportedFeatures attribute (starting with 1). Feature: A short name that can be used to refer to the bit and to the feature. M/O: Defines if the implementation of the feature is mandatory ("M") or optional ("O"). Description: A clear textual description of the feature. NOTE 1:	An NRF that advertises support of a given feature shall support all the query parameters associated with the feature. An NRF may support none or a subset of the query parameters of features that it does not advertise as supported. NOTE 2:	For a release under development, it is recommended to define new features for new query parameters by grouping them per 3GPP work item. Any definition of new query parameters in a frozen release requires a new feature definition.	Feature number: The order number of the feature within the supportedFeatures attribute (starting with 1). Feature: A short name that can be used to refer to the bit and to the feature. M/O: Defines if the implementation of the feature is mandatory ("M") or optional ("O"). Description: A clear textual description of the feature. NOTE 1:	An NRF that advertises support of a given feature shall support all the query parameters associated with the feature. An NRF may support none or a subset of the query parameters of features that it does not advertise as supported. NOTE 2:	For a release under development, it is recommended to define new features for new query parameters by grouping them per 3GPP work item. Any definition of new query parameters in a frozen release requires a new feature definition.	Feature number: The order number of the feature within the supportedFeatures attribute (starting with 1). Feature: A short name that can be used to refer to the bit and to the feature. M/O: Defines if the implementation of the feature is mandatory ("M") or optional ("O"). Description: A clear textual description of the feature. NOTE 1:	An NRF that advertises support of a given feature shall support all the query parameters associated with the feature. An NRF may support none or a subset of the query parameters of features that it does not advertise as supported. NOTE 2:	For a release under development, it is recommended to define new features for new query parameters by grouping them per 3GPP work item. Any definition of new query parameters in a frozen release requires a new feature definition.

