5.2.1	Service Description
The Nnrf_NFManagement service allows an NF, SCP or SEPP Instance in the serving PLMN to register, update or deregister its profile in the NRF.
If the "Shared-Data-Registration" feature is supported, the registered, updated or deregistered profile may contain shared data IDs. The corresponding shared data are either locally configured at the NRF by means of OAM, or are registered, updated or deregistered by the NF. In deployments where shared data are locally configured at the NRF by means of OAM support of shared data registration, update and deletion by means of the Nnrf_NFManagement service is not a required part of the "Shared-Data-Registration" feature.
NOTE:	Shared Data can be used e.g. by NFs belonging to an NF Set to optimize Nnrf signalling. Alternatively, other means such as OA&M can also be used to register, update or deregister shared data belonging or not belonging to an NF Set in the NRF.
If the "Shared-Data-Retrieval" feature is supported, it allows consumers to retrieve shared data, subscribe and un-subscribe to shared data modification notifications and get notified when shared data are modified.
The Nnrf_NFManagement service also allows an NRF Instance to register, update or deregister its profile in another NRF in the same PLMN.
NOTE:	Alternatively, other means such as OA&M can also be used to register, update or deregister NRF profile in another NRF.
It also allows an NF or an SCP to subscribe to be notified of registration, deregistration and profile changes of NF Instances, along with their potential NF services, or of SEPP instances. It also enables an SCP to subscribe to be notified of registration, deregistration and profile changes of other SCP instances.
The NF profile consists of general parameters of the NF Instance, and also the parameters of the different NF Service Instances exposed by the NF Instance, if applicable.
The PLMN of the NRF may comprise one or multiple PLMN IDs (i.e. MCC and MNC). An NRF configured with multiple PLMN IDs shall support registering, updating and deregistering the profile of Network Function Instances from any of these PLMN IDs.
The Nnrf_NFManagement service also allows retrieving a list of NF, SCP or SEPP Instances currently registered in the NRF or the NF Profile of a given NF, SCP or SEPP Instance.
The Nnrf_NFManagement service also allows checking whether the registered NFs, SCPs and SEPPs are operative.