6.2.3	Resources
6.2.3.1	Overview
The structure of the Resource URIs of the NFDiscovery service is shown in figure 6.2.3.1-1.

Figure 6.2.3.1-1: Resource URI structure of the NFDiscovery API
Table 6.2.3.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP methods.
Table 6.2.3.1-1: Resources and methods overview

Resource name	Resource URI	HTTP method or custom operation	Description
nf-instances (Store)	/nf-instances	GET	Retrieve a collection of NF Instances according to certain filter criteria.
Stored Search (Document)	/searches/{searchId}	GET	Retrieve a collection of NF Instances, previously stored by NRF as a consequence of a prior search result.
Complete Stored Search (Document)	/searches/{searchId}/complete	GET	Retrieve a collection of NF Instances, previously stored by NRF as a consequence of a prior search result, without applying any client restriction on the number of instances (e.g. "limit" or "max-payload-size" query parameters).
SCP Domain Routing Information (Document)	/scp-domain-routing-info	GET	Retrieve the SCP Domain Routing Information.
SCP Domain Routing Info Subscriptions (Collection)	/scp-domain-routing-info-subs	POST	Subscribe to SCP Domain Routing Information change.
Individual SCP Domain Routing Info Subscription (Document)	/scp-domain-routing-info-subs/{subscriptionID}	DELETE	Unsubscribe to SCP Domain Routing Information change.


6.2.3.2	Resource: nf-instances (Store)
6.2.3.2.1	Description
This resource represents a collection of the different NF instances registered in the NRF.
This resource is modelled as the Store resource archetype (see clause C.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
6.2.3.2.2	Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/nf-instances
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.3.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.3.2.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource

Name	Data type	Definition
apiRoot	string	See clause 6.1.1


6.2.3.2.3	Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.2.3.1	GET
This operation retrieves a list of NF Instances, and their offered services, currently registered in the NRF, satisfying a number of filter criteria, such as those NF Instances offering a certain service name, or those NF Instances of a given NF type (e.g., AMF).
Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description	Applicability
target-nf-type	NFType	M	1	This IE shall contain the NF type of the target NF being discovered.	
requester-nf-type	NFType	M	1	This IE shall contain the NF type of the Requester NF that is invoking the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service.	
preferred-collocated-nf-types	array(CollocatedNfType)	O	1..N	The IE may be present to indicate desired collocated NF type(s) when the NF service consumer wants to discover candidate NFs matching the target NF Type that are preferentially collocated with other NF types. (NOTE 19)	Collocated-NF-Selection
requester-nf-instance-id	NfInstanceId	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the NF instance id of the Requester NF.	Query-Params-Ext2
service-names	array(ServiceName)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain an array of service names for which the NRF is queried to provide the list of NF profiles.  The NRF shall return the NF profiles that have at least one NF service matching the NF service names in this list.  The NF services returned by the NRF (inside the nfServices or nfServiceList attributes) in each matching NFProfile shall be those services whose service name matches one of the service names included in this list.  If not included, the NRF shall not filter based on service name.  This array shall contain unique items.  Example:  NF1 supports services: A, B, C NF2 supports services:       C, D, E NF3 supports services: A,    C,    E NF4 supports services:    B, C, D  Consumer asks for service-names=A,E  NRF returns:  NF1 containing service A NF2 containing service E NF3 containing services A, E NF4 is not returned	
requester-nf-instance-fqdn	Fqdn	O	0..1	This IE may be present for an NF discovery request within the same PLMN as the NRF. If included, this IE shall contain the FQDN of the Requester NF that is invoking the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service. The NRF shall use this to return only those NF profiles that include at least one NF service containing an entry in the "allowedNfDomains" list (see clause 6.1.6.2.3) that matches the domain of the requester NF. This IE shall be ignored by the NRF if it is received from a requester NF belonging to a different PLMN. (NOTE 12)	
target-plmn-list	array(PlmnId)	C	1..N	This IE shall be included when NF services in a different PLMN, or NF services of specific PLMN ID(s) in a same PLMN comprising multiple PLMN IDs, need to be discovered. When included, this IE shall contain the PLMN ID of the target NF. If more than one PLMN ID is included, NFs from any PLMN ID present in the list matches the query parameter. This IE shall also be included in SNPN scenarios, when the entity owning the subscription, the Credentials Holder (see clause 5.30.2.9 in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]) is a PLMN.  For inter-PLMN service discovery, at most 1 PLMN ID shall be included in the list; it shall be included in the service discovery from the NF in the source PLMN sent to the NRF in the same PLMN, while it may be absent in the service discovery request sent from the source NRF to the target NRF. In such case, if the NRF receives more than 1 PLMN ID, it shall only consider the first element of the array, and ignore the rest.	
requester-plmn-list	array(PlmnId)	C	1..N	This IE shall be included when NF services in a different PLMN need to be discovered. It may be present when NF services in the same PLMN need to be discovered. When included, this IE shall contain the PLMN ID(s) of the requester NF. (NOTE 12)	
requester-snpn-list	array(PlmnIdNid)	C	1..N	This IE shall be included when the Requester NF belongs to one or several SNPNs, and NF services of a specific SNPN or PLMN need to be discovered. The SNPN scenarios include use cases when CH/DCS is using AAA-S or when CH/DCS is using AUSF/UDM, see clauses 5.30.2.9.2, 5.30.2.9.3 and 5.30.2.10.2.2 in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]). It may be present when NF services from the same SNPN need to be discovered. When present, this IE shall contain the SNPN ID(s) of the requester NF. The NRF shall use this to return only those NF profiles of NF Instances allowing to be discovered from the SNPNs identified by this IE, according to the "allowedSnpns" list in the NF Profile and NF Service (see clauses 6.1.6.2.2 and 6.1.6.2.3).	Query-Params-Ext2
target-nf-instance-id	NfInstanceId	O	0..1	Identity of the NF instance being discovered.	
target-nf-instance-id-list	array(NfInstanceId)	O	2..N	Identities of the NF instances being discovered. (NOTE 26) If included, the NRF shall return the NF profile of each NF instance indicated in this query parameter that is available at the NRF.	Enh-NF-Discovery-Ext1
target-nf-fqdn	Fqdn	O	0..1	FQDN of the target NF instance being discovered.	
hnrf-uri	Uri	C	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the API URI of the NFDiscovery Service (see clause 6.2.1) of the home NRF. It shall be included if the Requester NF has previously received such API URI to be used for service discovery (e.g., from the NSSF in the home PLMN as specified in clause 6.1.6.2.11 of 3GPP TS 29.531 [42]).	
snssais	array(Snssai)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the list of S-NSSAIs that are served by the NF (Service) Instances being discovered. The NRF shall return those NF profiles/NF services of NF (Service) Instances that have at least one of the S-NSSAIs in this list. The S-NSSAIs included in the NF profiles/NF services of NF  (Service) Instances returned by the NRF shall be an interclause of the S-NSSAIs requested and the S-NSSAIs supported by those NF (Service) Instances. (NOTE 10) When the NF Profile of the NF Instances being discovered has defined the list of supported S-NSSAIs in the "perPlmnSnssaiList", the discovered NF Instances shall be those having any of the S-NSSAIs included in this "snssais" parameter in any of the PLMNs included in the "target-plmn-list" attribute, if present; if the "target-plmn-list" is not included, the NRF shall assume that the discovery request is for any of the PLMNs it supports.	
additional-snssais	array(ExtSnssai)	O	1..N	This IE may be included if the "snssais" IE is present.  If this IE is present and supported by the NRF, when the NRF has successfully discovered NF (service) instances based on the "snssais" IE, the S-NSSAIs included in the NF profiles/NF services of NF (Service) Instances returned by the NRF shall additionally include the interclause of the S-NSSAIs listed in this IE and the S-NSSAIs supported by those NF (Service) Instances.  When the NF Profile of the NF Instances in the discovery result has defined the list of supported S-NSSAIs in the "perPlmnSnssaiList", the additional S-NSSAIs to be included shall be the ones supported in the PLMN(s) indicated in the "target-plmn-list" attribute, if present; if the "target-plmn-list" is not present, the additional S-NSSAIs in any supported PLMN(s) shall be included.	Query-SBIProtoc18
requester-snssais	array(ExtSnssai)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the list of S-NSSAI of the requester NF. If this IE is included in a service discovery in a different PLMN, the requester NF shall provide S-NSSAI values of the target PLMN, that correspond to the S-NSSAI values of the requester NF. The NRF shall use this to return only those NF profiles of NF Instances allowing to be discovered from at least one network slice identified by this IE, according to the "allowedNssais" list in the NF Profile and NF Service (see clause 6.1.6.2.2 and 6.1.6.2.3). (NOTE 12)	
plmn-specific-snssai-list	array(PlmnSnssai)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the list of S-NSSAI that are served by the NF service being discovered for the corresponding PLMN provided. The NRF shall use this to identify the NF services that have registered their support for the S-NSSAIs for the corresponding PLMN given. The NRF shall return the NF profiles that have at least one S-NSSAI supported in any of the PLMNs provided in this list. The per PLMN list of S-NSSAIs included in the NF profile returned by the NRF shall be an interclause of the list requested and the list registered in the NF profile. (NOTE 10).	
requester-plmn-specific-snssai-list	array(PlmnSnssai)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the list of S-NSSAI of the requester NF, for each of the PLMNs it supports. The NRF shall use this to return only those NF profiles of NF Instances allowing to be discovered from at least one network slice identified by this IE, according to the "allowedNssais" and "allowedPlmns" attributes in the NF Profile and NF Service (see clause 6.1.6.2.2 and 6.1.6.2.3). (NOTE 12)	Query-Params-Ext3
nsi-list	array(string)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the list of NSI IDs that are served by the services being discovered.	
dnn	Dnn	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the DNN for which NF services serving that DNN is discovered. DNN may be included if the target NF type is e.g. "BSF", "SMF", "PCF", "PCSCF", "UPF", "EASDF", "TSCTSF", "MB-UPF" or "MB-SMF". The DNN shall contain the Network Identifier and it may additionally contain an Operator Identifier. (NOTE 11) (NOTE 30). If the Snssai(s) are also included, the NF services serving the DNN shall be available in the network slice(s) identified by the Snssai(s).	
ipv4-index	IpIndex	O	0..1	This IE may be included if the target NF type is "UPF" or "SMF"  and the dnn IE is included.  When included, this IE shall indicate the IPv4 index that is supported by the candidate UPF/SMF.	Query-Upf-IpIndex / Query-Smf-IpIndex
ipv6-index	IpIndex	O	0..1	This IE may be included if the target NF type is "UPF" or "SMF" and the dnn IE is included.  When included, this IE shall indicate the IPv6 index that is supported by the candidate UPF/SMF.	Query-Upf-IpIndex / Query-Smf-IpIndex
smf-serving-area	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the serving area of the SMF. It may be included if the target NF type is "UPF".	
mbsmf-serving-area	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the serving area of the MB-SMF. It may be included if the target NF type is "MB-UPF".	Query-MBS
tai	Tai	O	0..1	Tracking Area Identity. (NOTE 22).	
amf-region-id	AmfRegionId	O	0..1	AMF Region Identity.	
amf-set-id	AmfSetId	O	0..1	AMF Set Identity.	
guami	Guami	O	0..1	Guami used to search for an appropriate AMF. (NOTE 1)	
supi	Supi	C	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the SUPI of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. SUPI may be included if the target NF type is e.g. "PCF", "CHF", "AUSF", "BSF", "UDM", "TSCTSF", "NSSAAF", "UDR" or "P-CSCF". (NOTE 32) (NOTE 35)  An NRF consumer complying with this version of the specification, when it sends a discovery request for "AUSF" or "UDM" target NF types:  - In non-roaming scenarios, if the "Subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature is used in the HPLMN (see clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]), the consumer shall include "supi" and/or "routing-indicator" query parameters, if available.  - In roaming scenarios, the consumer shall include "supi" and/or "routing-indicator" query parameters, if available.	
ue-ipv4-address	Ipv4Addr	O	0..1	The IPv4 address of the UE for which a BSF or P-CSCF or UPF needs to be discovered. (NOTE 27) (NOTE 33)	
ip-domain	string	O	0..1	The IPv4 address domain of the UE for which a BSF or UPF needs to be discovered. (NOTE 33)	
ue-ipv6-prefix	Ipv6Prefix	O	0..1	The IPv6 prefix of the UE for which a BSF or P-CSCF or UPF needs to be discovered. (NOTE 27) (NOTE 33)	
pgw-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a combined SMF/PGW-C or a standalone SMF needs to be discovered.  true: A combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered; false: A standalone SMF is requested to be discovered. (See NOTE 2, NOTE 21)	
preferred-pgw-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether combined PGW-C+SMF(s) or standalone SMF(s) are preferred.  true: Combined PGW-C+SMF(s) are preferred to be discovered; false: Standalone SMF(s) are preferred to be discovered. (See NOTE 2, NOTE 20, NOTE 21)	Query-SBIProtoc17
pgw	Fqdn	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the PGW FQDN which is used by the AMF to find the combined SMF/PGW-C.	
pgw-ip	IpAddr	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the PGW IP Address used by the AMF to find the combined SMF/PGW-C.	Query-SBIProtoc17
gpsi	Gpsi	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the GPSI of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. GPSI may be included if the target NF type is "CHF", "PCF", "BSF", "UDM", "TSCTSF", "UDR" or "P-CSCF". (NOTE 35)	
external-group-identity	ExtGroupId	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the external group identifier of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. This may be included if the target NF type is "UDM", "UDR", "HSS" or "TSCTSF".	
pfd-data	PfdData	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the application identifiers and/or application function identifiers in PFD management. This may be included if the target NF type is "NEF". The NRF shall return those NEF instances which can provide the PFDs for at least one of the provided application identifiers, or for at least one of the provided application function identifiers.	Query-Params-Ext2
data-set	DataSetId	O	0..1	Indicates the data set to be supported by the NF to be discovered. May be included if the target NF type is "UDR".	
routing-indicator	string	C	0..1	Routing Indicator information that allows to route network signalling with SUCI (see 3GPP TS 23.003 [12]) to an AUSF, AAnF and UDM instance capable to serve the subscriber. May be included if the target NF type is "AUSF", "AANF" or "UDM". Pattern: "^[0-9]{1,4}$" (NOTE 32)  An NRF consumer complying with this version of the specification, when it sends a discovery request for "AUSF" or "UDM" target NF types:  - In non-roaming scenarios, if the "Subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature is used in the HPLMN (see clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]), the consumer shall include "supi" and/or "routing-indicator" query parameters, if available.  - In roaming scenarios, the consumer shall include "supi" and/or "routing-indicator" query parameters, if available.	
group-id-list	array(NfGroupId)	O	1..N	Identity of the group(s) of the NFs of the target NF type to be discovered. May be included if the target NF type is "UDR", "UDM", "HSS", "PCF", "AUSF", "BSF", "UDSF", "CHF" or "P-CSCF". (NOTE 35)	
dnai-list	array(Dnai)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the Data network access identifiers. It may be included if the target NF type is "UPF", "SMF", "EASDF" or "NEF".	
upf-iwk-eps-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a UPF supporting interworking with EPS needs to be discovered.  true: A UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered; false: A UPF not supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered. (NOTE 3)	
chf-supported-plmn	PlmnId	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the PLMN ID that a CHF supports (i.e., in the PlmnRange of ChfInfo attribute in the NFProfile). This IE may be included when the target NF type is "CHF".  When an SMF discovers CHF(s) for a PDU session, the SMF shall set the value of this IE as specified in clause 5.1.9.2 of 3GPP TS 32.255 [46].	
preferred-locality	string	O	0..1	Preferred target NF location (e.g. geographic location, data center). When present, the NRF shall prefer NF profiles with a locality attribute that matches the preferred-locality. The NRF may return additional NFs in the response not matching the preferred target NF location, e.g. if no NF profile is found matching the preferred target NF location. The NRF should set a lower priority for any additional NFs on the response not matching the preferred target NF location than those matching the preferred target NF location. In addition, based on operator's policy, the NRF may set different priorities based on the localities of the NFs. (NOTE 6, NOTE 25, NOTE 31)	
ext-preferred-locality	map(array(LocalityDescription))	O	1..N(1..M)	Preferred target NF location (e.g. geographic location, data center). The key of the map shall represent the relative priority, for the requester, of each locality description among the list of locality descriptions in this query parameter, encoded as "1" (highest priority"), "2", "3", …, "n" (lowest priority).  When present, the NRF shall prefer NF profiles with an extLocality attribute that matches at least one LocalityDescription of the ext-preferred-locality, with the highest possible priority.  The NRF may return additional NFs in the response not matching the preferred target NF location, e.g. if no NF profile is found matching the preferred target NF location.  The NRF should set the priority of each NF profile returned in the response based on the priority associated with the matching locality description of the ext-preferred-locality. The NRF should set a lower priority for any additional NFs in the response not matching the preferred target NF location than those matching the preferred target NF location. In addition, based on operator's policy, the NRF may set different priorities based on the localities of the NFs. (NOTE 6)  Example 1 indicating a preference to discover an NFp in the data center "dc-123" as a first choice, otherwise in the city of Los Angeles or San Diego as a second choice, otherwise in the state of California as a third choice. {  "1": [{localityType: DATA_CENTER, localityValue: "dc-123"}],  "2": [{localityType: CITY, localityValue: "Los Angeles"},          {localityType: CITY, localityValue: "San Diego"}],  "3": [{localityType: STATE, localityValue: "California"}] }  Example 2 indicating a preference to discover an NFp in the data center "dc-123" as a first choice, otherwise in the data center "dc-456" or "dc-789" as a second choice. {  "1": [{localityType: DATA_CENTER, localityValue: "dc-123"}],  "2": [{localityType: DATA_CENTER, localityValue: "dc-456"},          {localityType: {DATA_CENTER, localityValue: "dc-789"}] }  Example 3 indicating a preference to discover an NFp in the city of Bath and in the state of Virginia as a first choice, otherwise in the state of Virginia as a second choice. {  "1": [{localityType: CITY, localityValue: "Bath",          addlLocDescrItems: [{localityType: STATE, localityValue:          "Virginia"}]],  "2": [{localityType: STATE, localityValue: "Virginia"} }  (NOTE 25, NOTE 31)	Query-SBIProtoc18
access-type	AccessType	C	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the Access type which is required to be supported by the target Network Function (i.e. SMF).	
supported-features	SupportedFeatures	O	0..1	List of features required to be supported by the target Network Function. This IE may be present only if the service-names attribute is present and if it contains a single service-name. It shall be ignored by the NRF otherwise. (NOTE 4)	
required-features	array(SupportedFeatures)	O	1..N	List of features required to be supported by the target Network Function, as defined by the supportedFeatures attribute in NFService (see clauses 6.1.6.2.3 and 6.2.6.2.4). This IE may be present only if the service-names attribute is present. When present, the required-features attribute shall contain as many entries as the number of entries in the service-names attribute. The nth entry in the required-features attribute shall correspond to the nth entry in the service-names attribute. An entry corresponding to a service for which no specific feature is required shall be encoded as "0". (NOTE 24)	Query-Params-Ext1
complex-query	ComplexQuery	O	0..1	This query parameter is used to override the default logical relationship of query parameters.	Complex-Query
limit	integer	O	0..1	Maximum number of NFProfiles to be returned in the response. Minimum: 1	Query-Params-Ext1
max-payload-size	integer	O	0..1	Maximum content size (before compression, if any) of the response, expressed in kilo octets. When present, the NRF shall limit the number of NF profiles returned in the response such as to not exceed the maximum content size indicated in the request. Default: 124. Maximum: 2000 (i.e. 2 Mo).	Query-Params-Ext1
max-payload-size-ext	integer	O	0..1	Maximum content size (before compression, if any) of the response, expressed in kilo octets. When present, the NRF shall limit the number of NF profiles returned in the response such as to not exceed the maximum content size indicated in the request. This query parameter is used when the consumer supports content size bigger than 2 million octets. Default: 124	Query-Params-Ext2
pdu-session-types	array(PduSessionType)	O	1..N	List of the PDU session type (s) requested to be supported by the target Network Function (i.e UPF).	Query-Params-Ext1
event-id-list	array(EventId)	O	1..N	If present, this attribute shall contain the list of events requested to be supported by the Nnwdaf AnalyticsInfo Service, the NRF shall return NF which support all the requested events.	Query-Param-Analytics
nwdaf-event-list	array(NwdafEvent)	O	1..N	If present, this attribute shall contain the list of events requested to be supported by the Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription service, the NRF shall return NF which support all the requested events.	Query-Param-Analytics
upf-event-list	array(EventType)	O	1..N	If present, this attribute shall contain the list of events requested to be supported by the Nupf_EventExposure service. The NRF shall return UPFs which support all the requested events.	Query-UPEAS
atsss-capability	AtsssCapability	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates the ATSSS capability of the target UPF needs to be supported.	MAPDU
upf-ue-ip-addr-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a UPF supporting allocating UE IP addresses/prefixes needs to be discovered.  true: a UPF supporting UE IP addresses/prefixes allocation is requested to be discovered; false: a UPF not supporting UE IP addresses/prefixes allocation is requested to be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext2
client-type	ExternalClientType	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates that NF(s) dedicatedly serving the specified Client Type needs to be discovered. This IE may be included when target NF Type is "LMF" and "GMLC".  If no NF profile is found dedicatedly serving the requested client type, the NRF may return NF(s) not dedicatedly serving the request client type in the response.	Query-Params-Ext2
lmf-id	LMFIdentification	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain LMF identification to be discovered.This may be included if the target NF type is "LMF".	Query-Params-Ext2
an-node-type	AnNodeType	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the AN Node type which is required to be supported by the target Network Function (i.e. LMF).	Query-Params-Ext2
rat-type	RatType	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the RAT type which is required to be supported by the target Network Function (i.e. LMF).	Query-Params-Ext2
target-snpn	PlmnIdNid	C	0..1	This IE shall be included when NF services of a specific SNPN need to be discovered. When included, this IE shall contain the PLMN ID and NID of the target NF. This IE shall also be included in SNPN scenarios, when the entity owning the subscription, the Credentials Holder (see clause 5.30.2.9 in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]) is an SNPN.	Query-Params-Ext2
af-ee-data	AfEventExposureData	O	0..1	When present, this shall contain the application events, and optionally application function identifiers, application identifiers of the AF(s). This may be included if the target NF type is "NEF".	Query-Params-Ext2
w-agf-info	WAgfInfo	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the W-AGF identifiers of N3 terminations which is received by the SMF to find the combined W-AGF/UPF or the preferred UPF(s) for the W-AGF.  The NRF shall return UPFs co-located with the W-AGF if any exists (see wAgfInfo attribute in UpfInfo). Otherwise, if the NRF supports the Query-UPF-Selection-N3GPP feature, the NRF shall return preferred UPF(s) for the W-AGF if any preferred UPF exist (see preferredWagfInfoList attribute in UpfInfo).	Query-Params-Ext2
tngf-info	TngfInfo	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the TNGF identifiers of N3 terminations which is received by the SMF to find the combined TNGF/UPF or the preferred UPF(s) for the TNGF.  The NRF shall return UPFs co-located with the TNGF if any exists (see tngfInfo attribute in UpfInfo). Otherwise, if the NRF supports the Query-UPF-Selection-N3GPP feature, the NRF shall return preferred UPF(s) for the TNGF if any preferred UPF exist (see preferredTngfInfoList attribute in UpfInfo).	Query-Params-Ext2
twif-info	TwifInfo	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the TWIF identifiers of N3 terminations which is received by the SMF to find the combined TWIF/UPF or the preferred UPF(s) for the TWIF.  The NRF shall return UPFs co-located with the TWIF if any exists (see twifInfo attribute in UpfInfo). Otherwise, if the NRF supports the Query-UPF-Selection-N3GPP feature, the NRF shall return preferred UPF(s) for the TWIF if any preferred UPF exist (see preferredTwifInfoList attribute in UpfInfo).	Query-Params-Ext2
upf-select-epdg-info	EpdgInfo	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the EPDG identifiers of S2b-u terminations which is received by the SMF/PGW-C to find the preferred UPF/PGW-U to serve the ePDG.	Query-UPF-Selection-N3GPP
target-nf-set-id	NfSetId	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the target NF Set ID (as defined in clause 28.12 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [12]) of the NF instances being discovered.	Query-Params-Ext2
target-nf-service-set-id	NfServiceSetId	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the target NF Service Set ID (as defined in clause 28.13 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [12]) of the NF service instances being discovered.  If this IE is provided together with the target-nf-set-id IE, the NRF shall return service instances of the NF Service Set indicated in the request and should additionally return equivalent ones, if any.	Query-Params-Ext2
preferred-tai	Tai	O	0..1	When present, the NRF shall prefer NF profiles that can serve the TAI, or the NRF shall return NF profiles not matching the TAI if no NF profile is found matching the TAI. (NOTE 5, NOTE 31)	Query-Params-Ext2
nef-id	NefId	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the NEF ID of the NEF to be discovered. This may be included if the target NF type is "NEF". (NOTE 7)	Query-Params-Ext2
preferred-nf-instances	array(NfInstanceId)	O	1..N	When present, this IE shall contain a list of preferred candidate NF instance IDs. (NOTE 8)	Query-Params-Ext2
notification-type	NotificationType	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the notification type of default notification subscriptions that shall be registered in the NFProfile or NFService of the NF Instances being discovered. The NF profiles returned by the NRF shall contain all the registered default notification subscriptions, including the one corresponding to the notification-type parameter. (NOTE 9)	Query-Params-Ext2
n1-msg-class	N1MessageClass	O	0..1	This IE may be included when "notification-type" IE is present with value "N1_MESSAGES".  When included, this IE shall contain the N1 message class of default notification subscriptions that shall be registered in the NFProfile or NFService of the NF Instances being discovered. The NF profiles returned by the NRF shall contain all the registered default notification subscriptions, including the one corresponding to the n1-msg-class parameter. (NOTE 9)	Query-Params-Ext3
n2-info-class	N2InformationClass	O	0..1	This IE may be included when "notification-type" IE is present with value "N2_INFORMATION".  If included, this IE shall contain the notification type of default notification subscriptions that shall be registered in the NFProfile or NFService of the NF Instances being discovered. The NF profiles returned by the NRF shall contain all the registered default notification subscriptions, including the one corresponding to the n2-info-class parameter. (NOTE 9)	Query-Params-Ext3
serving-scope	array(string)	O	1..N	If present, this attribute shall contain the list of areas that can be served by the NF instances to be discovered. The NRF shall return NF profiles of NFs which can serve all the areas requested in this query parameter. (NOTE 18, NOTE 31)	Query-Params-Ext2
preferred-serving-scope	string	O	0..1	If present, the NRF shall prefer NF profiles that can serve the serving-scope, or the NRF shall return NF profiles not matching the serving-scope if no NF profile can serve the serving scope. (NOTE 31)	Query-Preferred-Serving-Scope
ims-domain-name	string	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the IMS domain name to search for an appropriate NF. IMS domain name may be included if the target NF type is "DCSF".	Query-NG-RTC
imsi	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the IMSI of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. IMSI may be included if the target NF type is "HSS" or "DCSF". pattern: "^[0-9]{5,15}$"	Query-Params-Ext2
ims-private-identity	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the IMS Private Identity of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. IMS Private Identity may be included if the target NF type is "HSS" or "DCSF".	Query-Params-Ext3
ims-public-identity	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the IMS Public Identity of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. IMS Public Identity may be included if the target NF type is "HSS" or "DCSF".	Query-Params-Ext3
msisdn	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the MSISDN of the requester UE to search for an appropriate NF. IMS Public Identity may be included if the target NF type is "HSS" or "DCSF".	Query-Params-Ext3
internal-group-identity	GroupId	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the internal group identifier of the UE to search for an appropriate NF. This may be included if the target NF type is "UDM", "NSSAAF" or "TSCTSF".	Query-Params-Ext2
preferred-api-versions	map(string)	O	1..N	When present, this IE indicates the preferred API version of the services that are supported by the target NF instances. The key of the map is the ServiceName (see clause 6.1.6.3.11) for which the preferred API version is indicated. Each element carries the API Version Indication for the service indicated by the key. The NRF may return additional NFs in the response not matching the preferred API versions, e.g. if no NF profile is found matching the preferred-api-versions.  An API Version Indication is a string formatted as {operator}+{API Version}.  The following operators shall be supported:  "="	match a version equals to the version value indicated. ">"	match any version greater than the version value indicated ">="	match any version greater than or equal to the version value indicated "<"	match any version less than the version value indicated "<="	match any version less than or equal to the version value indicated "^"	match any version compatible with the version indicated, i.e. any version with the same major version as the version indicated.  Precedence between versions is identified by comparing the Major, Minor, and Patch version fields numerically, from left to right.  If no operator or an unknown operator is provided in API Version Indication, "=" operator is applied.  Example of API Version Indication:  Case1: "=1.2.4.operator-ext" or "1.2.4.operator-ext" means matching the service with API version "1.2.4.operator-ext" Case2: ">1.2.4" means matching the service with API versions greater than "1.2.4" Case3: "^2.3.0" or "^2" means matching the service with all API versions with major version "2".	Query-Params-Ext2
v2x-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a PCF supporting V2X Policy/Parameter provisioning needs to be discovered.  true: a PCF supporting V2X Policy/Parameter provisioning is requested to be discovered; false: a PCF not supporting V2X Policy/Parameter provisioning is requested to be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext2
redundant-gtpu	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a UPF supporting redundant GTP-U path needs to be discovered.  true: a UPF supporting redundant GTP-U path is requested to be discovered; false: a UPF not supporting redundant GTP-U path is requested to be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext2
redundant-transport	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a UPF supporting redundant transport path on the transport layer in the corresponding network slice needs to be discovered.  true: a UPF supporting redundant transport path on the transport layer is requested to be discovered; false: a UPF not supporting redundant transport path on the transport layer is requested to be discovered.  If the Snssai(s) are also included, the UPF supporting redundant transport path on the transport layer shall be available in the network slice(s) identified by the Snssai(s).	Query-Params-Ext2
ipups	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a UPF which is configured for IPUPS is requested to be discovered.  true: a UPF which is configured for IPUPS is requested to be discovered; false: a UPF which is not configured for IPUPS is requested to be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext2
sxa-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a UPF which is configured to support Sxa interface is requested to be discovered.  true: a UPF which is configured to support Sxa interface is requested to be discovered; false: a UPF which is not configured to support Sxa interface is requested to be discovered.	Query-SBIProtoc18
scp-domain-list	array(string)	O	1..N	When present, this IE shall contain the SCP domain(s) the target NF, SCP or SEPP belongs to. The NRF shall return NF, SCP or SEPP profiles that belong to all the SCP domains provided in this list.	Query-Params-Ext2
address-domain	Fqdn	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the address domain that shall be reachable through the SCP. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SCP".	Query-Params-Ext2
ipv4-addr	Ipv4Addr	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the IPv4 address that shall be reachable through the SCP. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SCP".	Query-Params-Ext2
ipv6-prefix	Ipv6Prefix	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the IPv6 prefix that shall be reachable through the SCP. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SCP".	Query-Params-Ext2
served-nf-set-id	NfSetId	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the NF Set ID that shall be reachable through the SCP. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SCP".	Query-Params-Ext2
remote-plmn-id	PlmnId	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the remote PLMN ID that shall be reachable through the SCP or SEPP. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SCP" or "SEPP".	Query-Params-Ext2
remote-snpn-id	PlmnIdNid	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the remote SNPN ID that shall be reachable through the SCP or SEPP. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SCP" or "SEPP".	Query-ENPN
data-forwarding	boolean	O	0..1	This may be included if the target NF type is "UPF". (NOTE 13)  When present, the IE indicates whether UPF(s) configured for data forwarding needs to be discovered.  true: UPF(s) configured for data forwarding is requested to be discovered; false: UPF(s) not configured for data forwarding is requested to be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext2
preferred-full-plmn	boolean	O	0..1	When present, the NRF shall prefer NF profile(s) that can serve the full PLMN (i.e. can serve any TAI in the PLMN), or the NRF shall return other NF profiles if no NF profile serving the full PLMN is found:  - true: NF instance(s) serving the full PLMN is preferred; - false: NF instance(s) serving the full PLMN is not preferred.  (NOTE 14)	Query-Params-Ext2
requester-features	SupportedFeatures	C	0..1	Nnrf_NFDiscovery features supported by the Requester NF that is invoking the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service.  This IE shall be included if at least one of the following features is supported by the Requester NF: - Service-Map - Enh-NF-Discovery - Allowed-ruleset - RID-NfGroupId-Mapping - DNN-List-Optimization - Shared-Data - Canary-Release - Complete-Profile-Discovery  This IE may be included otherwise.	
realm-id	string	O	0..1	May be included if the target NF type is "UDSF". If included, this IE shall contain the realm-id for which a UDSF shall be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext4
storage-id	string	O	0..1	May be included if the target NF type is "UDSF" and realm-id is included. If included, this IE shall contain the storage-id for the realm-id indicated in the realm-id IE for which a UDSF shall be discovered.	Query-Params-Ext4
vsmf-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SMF".  -	true: Target SMF(s) supporting V-SMF are preferred to be discovered; -	false: Shall be handled the same way as when this optional query parameter is not received, i.e. V-SMF support is not taken as NF discovery criteria. (NOTE 15)	Query-Param-vSmf-Capability
ismf-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SMF".  -	true: Target SMF(s) supporting I-SMF are preferred to be discovered; -	false: Shall be handled the same way as when this optional query parameter is not received, i.e. I-SMF support is not taken as NF discovery criteria. (NOTE 15)	Query-Param-iSmf-Capability
nrf-disc-uri	Uri	C	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the API URI of the NFDiscovery Service (see clause 6.2.1) of the NRF holding the NF Profile.  It shall be included if: -	the target-nf-instance-id or target-nf-instance-id-list is present; -	the NF Service Consumer has previously received such API URI in an earlier NF service discovery, i.e. if the target NF instance was provided in the nfInstanceList attribute in SearchResult (see clause 6.2.6.2.2) and the nrfDiscApiUri attribute was present in the NfInstanceInfo (see clause 6.2.6.2.7); and -	the service discovery request is addressed to a different NRF than the NRF holding the NF profile.	Enh-NF-Discovery
preferred-vendor-specific-features	map(map(array(VendorSpecificFeature)))	O	1..N(1..M(1..L))	When present, this IE indicates the list of preferred vendor-specific features supported by the target Network Function, as defined by the supportedVendorSpecificFeatures attribute in NFService (see clauses 6.1.6.2.3 and 6.2.6.2.4). NF profiles that support all the preferred features, or by default, NF profiles that contain at least one service supporting the preferred features, should be preferentially returned in the response; NF profiles in the response may not support the preferred features.  The key of the external map is the ServiceName (see clause 6.1.6.3.11) for which the preferred vendor-specific features is indicated. Each element carries the preferred vendor-specific features for the service indicated by the key.  The key of the internal map is the IANA-assigned "SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Codes" [38]. The string used as key of the internal map shall contain 6 decimal digits; if the SMI code has less than 6 digits, it shall be padded with leading digits "0" to complete a 6-digit string value. The value of each entry of the map shall be a list (array) of VendorSpecificFeature objects.  The NF profiles returned by the NRF shall include the full list of vendor-specific-features and not just the interclause of supported and preferred vendor-specific features.	Query-SBIProtoc17
preferred-vendor-specific-nf-features	map(array(VendorSpecificFeature))	O	1..N(1..M)	When present, this IE indicates the list of preferred vendor-specific features supported by the target Network Function, as defined by the supportedVendorSpecificFeatures attribute in NF profile (see clause 6.1.6.2.2 and 6.2.6.2.3). NF profiles that support all the preferred features should be preferentially returned in the response. NF profiles in the response may not support the preferred features.  The key of the map is the IANA-assigned "SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Codes" [38]. The value of each entry of the map shall be a list (array) of VendorSpecificFeature objects.  The NF profiles returned by the NRF shall include the full list of vendor-specific features and not just the interclause of supported and preferred vendor-specific features.	Query-SBIProtoc17
required-pfcp-features	string	O	0..1	List of features required to be supported by the target UPF or MB-UPF (when selecting a UPF or a MB-UPF), encoded as defined for the supportedPfcpFeatures attribute in UpfInfo (see clause 6.1.6.2.13).  (NOTE 16)	Query-Upf-Pfcp
home-pub-key-id	integer	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall indicate the Home Network Public Key ID which shall be able to be served by the NF instance. May be included if the target NF type is "AUSF" or "UDM". This query parameter may only be present if the routing-indicator query parameter is also present. (NOTE 17)	Query-SBIProtoc17
prose-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether supporting ProSe capability by PCF needs to be discovered.  -	true: a PCF supporting ProSe capability is requested to be discovered; -	false: a PCF not supporting ProSe capability is requested to be discovered.	Query-5G-ProSe
analytics-aggregation-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "NWDAF".  -	true: An NF supporting analytics aggregation capability is requested to be discovered; -	false: Shall be handled the same way as when this optional query parameter is not received.	Query-eNA-PH2
analytics-metadata-prov-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "NWDAF".  -	true: An NF supporting analytics metadata provisioning capability is requested to be discovered; -	false: Shall be handled the same way as when this optional query parameter is not received.	Query-eNA-PH2
serving-nf-set-id	NfSetId	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the NF Set ID that is served by the DCCF, NWDAF or MFAF. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "DCCF" or "NWDAF" or "MFAF".	Query-eNA-PH2
serving-nf-type	NFType	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the NF type that is served by the DCCF, NWDAF or MFAF. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "DCCF" or "NWDAF" or "MFAF".	Query-eNA-PH2
ml-analytics-info-list	array(MlAnalyticsInfo)	O	1..N	If present, this attribute shall contain the list of ML Analytics Filter information per Analytics ID(s) requested to be supported by Network Data Analytics Services, e.g. the Nnwdaf_MLModelProvision Service, Nnwdaf_MLModelTraining service, Nnwdaf_VFLTraining service. The NRF shall return NWDAF profiles that support at least one of the MlAnalyticsInfo in this list.  An NWDAF supports a given MlAnalyticsInfo in the list when: - for attributes of MlAnalyticsInfo of type array (e.g. VendorID, S-NSSAIs, TAIs…), the NWDAF profile contains at least one of the elements included in the MlAnalyticsInfo, - if several attributes are included in a same MlAnalyticsInfo object in the query parameter list, there is one MlAnalyticsInfo in the NWDAF profile that matches with all of them.  EXAMPLE:  "nwdafInfo" of a certain NWDAF instance contains:  "mlAnalyticsList": [   {     "mlAnalyticsIds": [       "SLICE_LOAD_LEVEL",       "NETWORK_PERFORMANCE"     ],     "snssaiList": [ { "sst": 1 }, { "sst": 2 } ],     "trackingAreaList": [       {         "plmnId": { "mcc": "090", "mnc": "880" },         "tac": "cb34"       }     ],     "mlModelInterInfo": {        "vendorList": [ "034523", "109296" ]     }   } ]  1) if "ml-analytics-info-list" query parameter contains 2 MlAnalyticsInfo objects:  [   {     "mlAnalyticsIds": [ "SLICE_LOAD_LEVEL" ]   },   {     "snssaiList": [ { "sst": 3 } ]   } ]  the instance is returned (the first MlAnalyticsInfo item matches).  2) if "ml-analytics-info-list" query parameter contains:  [   {     "mlAnalyticsIds": [ "NETWORK_PERFORMANCE" ],     "vendorIdList": [ "002145" ]   } ]  the instance is NOT returned (only one MlAnalyticsInfo is provided, where Vendor ID does not match).	Query-eNA-PH2, Query-AIML-CN
nsacf-capability	NsacfCapability	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates the service capability that the target NSACF needs to support.	NSAC
mbs-session-id-list	array(MbsSessionId)	O	1..N	This IE may be present if the target NF type is "MB-SMF". When present, it shall contain the list of MBS Session ID(s) for which MB-SMF(s) are to be discovered. When present, for each mbs-session-id in the list, the NRF shall determine whether an MB-SMF supporting the mbs-session-id and complying with the other query parameters (if any) exists. An MB-SMF shall be considered to support the mbs-session-id if:  -	the mbs-session-id contains a TMGI that is part of a TMGI range (see tmgiRangeList attribute in clause 6.1.6.2.85) registered by the MB-SMF and, if the tai query parameter is present: -	if the TAI indicated in the tai query parameter can be served by the MB-SMF (see taiList and taiRangeList attributes in clause 6.1.6.2.85); or -	the mbs-session-id contains a TMGI or an SSM address, that is part of the list of MBS sessions currently served by the MB-SMF (see mbsSessionList attribute in clause 6.1.6.2.85) and, if the tai query parameter is present and the MBS session is registered with an MBS Service Area (see mbsServiceArea specified in 3GPP TS 29.571 [7]): -	if the TAI indicated in the tai query parameter is supported by the MBS Service Area of the MBS session. If so, the NRF shall return the profile of this MB-SMF. If no MB-SMF supporting the mbs-session-id and complying with the other query parameters exists, the NRF shall return an empty response. See clause 7.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.247 [43].	Query-MBS
area-session-id	AreaSessionId	O	0..1	This IE may be present if the target NF type is "MB-SMF", the mbs-session-id-list IE is present and contains only one MBS Session ID. When present, the IE shall contain the Area Session ID, for the MBS session indicated in the mbs-session-id-list IE, for which an MB-SMF is to be discovered. When this IE is present, the NRF shall return an MB-SMF profile that currently serves the MBS Session ID and Area Session ID (see mbsSessionList attribute in clause 6.1.6.2.85). If no MB-SMF supports the MBS Session ID and Area Session ID, the NRF shall return an empty response. See clause 7.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.247 [43].	Query-MBS
gmlc-number	string	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the GMLC Number of which should supported by the target GMLC. It may be included if the target NF type is "GMLC".  Pattern: "^[0-9]{5,15}$"	Query-eLCS
upf-n6-ip	IpAddr	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the N6 IP address of PSA UPF.  It may be included if the target NF type is "EASDF".	Query-eEDGE-5GC
tai-list	array(Tai)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the Tracking Area Identities requested to be supported by the NFs being discovered. The NRF shall return NFs which support all the TAIs in the list. It may be included if the target NF type is "NEF", "MB-SMF", "AMF", "NWDAF", "DCCF" or "MFAF". (NOTE 28)	Query-eEDGE-5GC, Query-TAI-LIST
nf-tai-list-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This query parameter may be present with the value true if the tai-list query parameter is present and the NF service consumer supports receiving from the NRF a list of NFs supporting only a subset of the TAs included in the tai-list. (NOTE 28)  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-SBIProtoc18
preferences-precedence	array(string)	O	2..N	This IE may be present when multiple query parameters expressing a preference are included in the discovery request.  When present, this IE shall indicate the relative precedence of these query parameters (from higher precedence to lower precedence). The NRF shall use the indicated precedence to prioritize the candidate NFs in the search result, among the candidate NFs partially matching the different preference query parameters, candidate matching the higher precedence preference query parameter should have higher priority.  This IE may include any query parameter named "preferred-xxx" or "ext-preferred-xxx" (e.g. preferred-locality, preferred-tai).  Example:  preferences-precedence=[preferred-tai, preferred-vendor-specific-features]  The above value indicates that the "preferred-tai" parameter has higher precedence than the "preferred-vendor-specific-features" parameter.	Query-SBIProtoc17
support-onboarding-capability	boolean	O	0..1	If present, this attribute indicates the target AMF or SMF instances support SNPN Onboarding. If the target is an SMF, this indicates the SMF also supports User Plane Remote Provisioning. This is used for the case of Onboarding of UEs for SNPNs (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], clauses 5.30.2.10 and 6.2.6.2).  -	true: An NF supporting SNPN Onboarding is requested to be discovered; -	false: Shall be handled the same way as when this optional query parameter is not received.	Query-ENPN
uas-nf-functionality-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "NEF".  -	true: An NF supporting UAS NF functionality is requested to be discovered; -	false: Shall be handled the same way as when this optional query parameter is not received.	Query-ID_UAS
multi-mem-af-sess-qos-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "NEF".  -	true: An NF supporting Multi-member AF session with required QoS functionality is requested to be discovered. Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-AIMLsys
member-ue-sel-assist-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "NEF".  -	true: An NF supporting member UE selection assistance functionality is requested to be discovered; Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-AIMLsys
v2x-capability	V2xCapability	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates the V2X capability that the target PCF needs to support.  When the v2x-capability is provided as the query parameter, NRF shall return the PCF instances which support all the V2X capabilities requested.	Query-SBIProtoc17
prose-capability	ProSeCapability	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates the ProSe capability that the target PCF needs to support.  When the prose-capability is provided as the query parameter, NRF shall return the PCF instances which support all the ProSe capabilities requested.	Query-5G-ProSe
shared-data-id	SharedDataId	O	0..1	Identifies the shared data that is stored in the NF (UDR) to be discovered. May be included if the target NF type is "UDR"	Query-SBIProtoc17
target-hni	Fqdn	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall contain the Home Network Identifier. If CH/DCS is using AAA Server or AUSF and UDM for primary authentication and authorization (see clauses 5.30.2.9.2, 5.30.2.9.3 and 5.30.2.10.2.2 in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]), the sender (AMF or AUSF) populates this IE with CH/DCS ID. See also clauses 4.17.4a and 4.17.5a in TS 23.502 [3]. If the target NF is AUSF or NSSAAF and the HNI belongs to a CH/DCS with AAA Server in another domain, i.e. not in this SNPN, the NRF returns back the AUSF or NSSAAF in the same SNPN, based on the NF profile as specified in clause 6.2.6.2 in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].	Query-ENPN
target-nw-resolution	boolean	O	0..1	If included and set to true, the NRF shall determine the identity of the target PLMN to which the NFDiscovery request shall be directed, based on the MSISDN of the UE included in the "gpsi" query parameter, as described in 3GPP TS 23.540 [48].  If included and set to false, this IE shall be ignored.	Query-Nw-Resolution
exclude-nfinst-list	array(NfInstanceId)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall indicate the list of NF instances that should not be returned in the NF Discovery response. (NOTE 23)	Query-SBIProtoc17-Ext1
exclude-nfservinst-list	array(NfServiceInstance)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall indicate the list of NF service instances that should not be returned in the NF Discovery response. (NOTE 23)	Query-SBIProtoc17-Ext1
exclude-nfserviceset-list	array(NfServiceSetId)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall indicate the list of NF service sets of NF service instances that should not be returned in the NF Discovery response. (NOTE 23)	Query-SBIProtoc17-Ext1
exclude-nfset-list	array(NfSetId)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall indicate the list of NF sets of NF instances that should not be returned in the NF Discovery response. (NOTE 23)	Query-SBIProtoc17-Ext1
preferred-analytics-delays	map(DurationSec)	O	1..N	If included, this IE shall contain the preferred Analytics Delay. The key of the map is the EventId or NwdafEvent (as defined in 3GPP TS 29.520 [33]) for which the preferred Analytics Delay is related to. Each element carries the preferred Analytics Delay for the Analytics ID indicated by the key.  The NRF shall return the NWDAFs supports the Analytics ID with a supported Analytics Delay that is less than or equal to the preferred Analytics Delay, as described in clause 6.3.13 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]. The NRF may return NWDAFs in the response not matching the preferred Analytics Delay, e.g. if no NWDAF profile is found matching the preferred Analytics Delay.	Query-eNA-PH2-Ext1
high-latency-com	boolean	O	0..1	If present and set to true, this attribute indicates target AMF(s) instances supporting High Latency communication (e.g. for NR RedCap UE) are required. This is used by CP NF to discover AMF supporting High Latency communication (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], clause 6.3.5).  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-HLC
nsac-sai	NsacSai	O	0..1	If included, it shall indicate the NSAC service area which shall be supported by the target NSACF. It may be included if the target NF type is "NSACF".  For NSAC hierarchical or centralized architecture, if this IE is set to "ENTIRE_PLMN", this indicates the NF service consumer wants to discover a primary/central NSACF for the entire PLMN. This IE shall be set to "ENTIRE_PLMN" also in roaming scenarios to discover the HPLMN NSACF as clarified in clause 6.3.22 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].	Query-eNS-PH2
complete-profile	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included by an SCP with the value true to request to discover the complete profile of NF Instances (including authorization attributes such as the "allowedXXX" attributes of NFProfile and NFService data types) matching the query parameters. See clause 5.3.2.2.2.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Complete-Profile-Discovery
n32-purposes	array(N32Purpose)	O	1..N	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SEPP". When present, this IE shall indicate the requested N32 purposes to be supported by the SEPP. The NRF shall return SEPP profiles that support at least one requested N32 purpose.	Query-SBIProtoc18
preferred-features	map(SupportedFeatures)	O	1..N	List of features preferred to be supported by the target Network Function, as defined by the supportedFeatures attribute in NFService (see clauses 6.1.6.2.3 and 6.2.6.2.4).  The key of the map is the Service Name as specified in clause 6.1.6.3.11. Each element carries the preferred feature(s) to be supported by the target Network Function for the indicated service.  The NRF shall priorize the NF candidates supporting the preferred features in the search result.  (NOTE 24)	Query-SBIProtoc18
remote-plmn-id-roaming	PlmnId	O	0..1	If included, this IE shall indicate the remote PLMN that the target NF service producer can serve, i.e. the NF service producer can serve the roaming UEs which belong to the indicated remote PLMN. This IE may be included when the target NF type is "SMSF" or "SMF".  When selecting a candidate SMSF, the NRF shall return the candidate NF service producer(s) in discovery result with the following order of preference:  -	NF profiles explicitly indicated the support of roaming UE for the requested remote PLMN; then -	NF profiles indicated the support of roaming UE for any remote PLMN; then -	if none of above are available, NF profiles without indication of roaming UE support. When selecting a candidate SMF for an LBO PDU session in VPLMN for an inbound roaming UE, the NRF shall return the candidate SMFs in discovery result in the following order:  -	NF profiles with the uePlmnRangeList configured in the DnnSmfInfoItem containing the PLMN ID indicated in the remote-plmn-id-roaming query parameter; otherwise -	NF profiles without a uePlmnRangeList being configured, i.e., when there is no specific SMF(s) configured to serve the UEs from the PLMN identified by the remote-plmn-id-roaming query parameter.	Query-SBIProtoc18
pru-tai	Tai	O	0..1	This may be included if the target NF type is "LMF".  When present, this IE indicates whether LMF(s) serving a TAI with PRU(s) existence needs to be discovered.	Query-eLCS-PH3
pru-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "LMF".  When present, this IE indicates whether the LMF(s) supporting PRU function need(s) to be discovered.  true: target LMF(s) supporting PRU function are requested to be discovered; false: target LMF(s) not supporting PRU function are requested to be discovered.	Query-eLCS-PH3
preferred-up-positioning-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "LMF".  When present, this IE indicates whether the LMF(s) supporting user plane positioning capability are desired to be discovered.  true: target LMF(s) supporting user plane positioning capability are desired to be discovered;   Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eLCS-PH3
af-data	AfData	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall contain the event that is supported by the "AF" for trusted AF discovery.	Query-eLCS-PH3
ml-accuracy-checking-ind	boolean	O	0..1	If present and set to true, this attribute indicates target NWDAF(s) instances containing MTLF with ML Model accuracy checking capability are required.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eNA-PH3
analytics-accuracy-checking-ind	boolean	O	0..1	If present and set to true, this attribute indicates target NWDAF(s) instances containing AnLF with Analytics accuracy checking capability are required.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eNA-PH3
ml-model-storage-ind	boolean	O	0..1	If present and set to true, this attribute indicates target ADRF(s) instances with ML model storage and retrieval capability are required.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eNA-PH3
data-storage-ind	boolean	O	0..1	If present and set to true, this attribute indicates target ADRF(s) instances with data and analytics storage and retrieval capability are required.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eNA-PH3
data-subscription-relocation-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	If present and set to true, this attribute indicates target DCCF(s) instances with relocation of data subscription support are required.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eNA-PH3
roaming-exchange-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "NWDAF".  - true: An NF supporting roaming exchange capability is requested to be discovered.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-eNA-PH3
media-capability-list	array(MediaCapability)	O	1..N	If present, this attribute shall contain the list of media capability that can be served by the NF instances to be discovered. The NRF shall return NF profiles of NFs which can serve all the media capabilities requested in this query parameter.	Query-NG-RTC
a2x-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a PCF supporting A2X Policy/Parameter provisioning needs to be discovered.  - true: a PCF supporting A2X Policy/Parameter provisioning is requested to be discovered  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-A2X
a2x-capability	A2xCapability	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates the A2X capability that the target PCF needs to support.  When the a2x-capability is provided as the query parameter, NRF shall return the PCF instances which support all the A2X capabilities requested.	Query-A2X
ranging-sl-pos-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether supporting ranging and sidelink positioning capability by PCF/LMF needs to be discovered.  - true: a PCF/LMF supporting ranging and sidelink positioning capability is requested to be discovered  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-5G- RangingSlPos
complete-search-result	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be present with the value true to indicate that all the NF profiles or NF Instance IDs matching the query parameters are requested to be returned. The presence of this IE with the value false shall be prohibited. (NOTE 29)	Query-SBIProtoc18
ursp-delivery-eps-support-ind	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE indicates whether a PCF supporting URSP delivery in EPS needs to be discovered.  true: a PCF supporting URSP delivery in EPS is requested to be discovered.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query_UEPO
dns-sec-protoc	array(DnsSecurityProtocol)	O	1..N	This IE may be present if the target NF type is "EASDF".  When present, this IE shall indicate DNS Security Protocols to be supported by the NF instances being discovered.  The NRF shall return NF profiles that support at least one of the DNS security protocols in this list. If there is no NF profile including the dnsSecurityProtocols IE matching at least one of the DNS security protocols in this list, the NRF shall return NF profiles not including the dnsSecurityProtocols IE.	Query-EDGE-Ph2
ind-com-with-del-disc	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be present if the requester is an NRF or a SCP.  When present, this IE shall be set to true to indicate that indirect communication with delegated discovery with NF selection at target domain feature is supported.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	NFsel_by_tPLMN
ind-com-wo-del-disc	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be present if the requester is an NRF or a SCP.  When present, this IE shall be set to true to indicate that indirect communication without delegated discovery with NF selection at target domain feature is supported.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	NFsel_by_tPLMN
vendor-ids	array(VendorId)	O	1..N	When present, the IE shall contain the list of vendor Id(s) of the NF instance(s) being discovered.  The NRF shall return only NF profiles whose vendor Id is in this list.  This IE may be present if the target NF type is an "NWDAF" containing "AnLF".	Q Query-eNA-Ph3_EXT
operator-config-capabilities	array(OpConfiguredCapability)	O	1..N	When present, this IE shall contain a list of operator configurable capabilities required to be supported by the UPF. The NRF shall only return NF profiles of the UPFs supporting all of these capabilities.	Query-UPEAS-Ph2
preferred-operator-config-capabilities	array(OpConfiguredCapability)	O	1..N	When present, this IE shall contain a list of preferred operator configurable capabilities of UPF. The NRF shall priorize to return NF profiles of the candidate UPFs supporting the preferred operator configurable capabilities in the search result.	Query-UPEAS-Ph2
upf-packet-inspection-func	array(UpfPacketInspectionFunctionality)	O	1..N	If present, this IE shall contain the list of packet inspection functionalities required to be supported by the UPF. The NRF shall only return NF profiles of the UPFs supporting all of these packet inspection functionalities. (NOTE 34)	Query-UPEAS_Ph2
preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func	array(UpfPacketInspectionFunctionality)	O	1..N	If present, this IE shall contain the list of preferred packet inspection functionalities of UPF. The NRF shall preferentially return the NF profiles of the candidate UPFs that support the preferred packet inspection functionalities. (NOTE 34)	Query-UPEAS_Ph2
support-serving-plmn	PlmnId	O	0..1	This IE may be present if the target NF type is "P-CSCF".  When present, this IE shall indicate the PLMN ID of the serving network that the candidate NF instance can serve. The NRF shall only return NF instance(s) that can serve the indicated serving PLMN.	Enh-PCSCF-Disc
2g3g-location-area	2G3GLocationArea	O	0..1	This IE may be present if the target NF is an UPF.  When present, the NRF shall return NF profiles that can serve the indicated 2G/3G location area.	UPF-2G3G- SUPPORT
vfl-caps	array(VflInfo)	O	1..N	If pesent this IE contains the VFL capability type per Analytics Id of the NWDAF or AF that is required to be discovered.  The NRF shall return NWDAF or AF profiles that support at least one of the vfl-caps in this list, which is a set of VFL information per given Analytics Id(s).  When the requested capability is "VFL_SERVER", the NRF shall consider the targets with "VFL_SERVER" capability and the targets with "VFL_SERVER_AND_CLIENT" capability. When the requested capability is "VFL_CLIENT", the NRF shall consider the targets with "VFL_CLIENT" capability and the targets with "VFL_SERVER_AND_CLIENT" capability.  When a requested VflInfo within the vfl-caps includes the attribute "featureIds", the NRF shall return a set of VFL clients (i.e. AFs and/or NWDAFs with vflCapabilityType set to either "VFL_CLIENT" or "VFL_SERVER_AND_CLIENT") that together support all of the feature IDs in the requested "featureIds" for the requested mlAnalyticsIds, where each one of the VFL clients may support all or only part of the requested feature IDs. When the NRF does not find a set of profiles that together support all of the request feature IDs, the NRF does not return any profile. Example: NWDAF1, NWDAF2, NWDAF3, NWDAF4 are registered to NRF:  NWDAF1: mlAnalyticsIds: "SIGNALLING_STORM" vflCapabilityType: "VFL_CLIENT" vflInterInfo: "List1" featureIds: "A", "B"  NWDAF2: mlAnalyticsIds: "SIGNALLING_STORM" vflCapabilityType: "VFL_SERVER_AND_CLIENT" vflInterInfo: "List1" featureIds: "C", "D"  NWDAF3: mlAnalyticsIds: "MOVEMENT_BEHAVIOUR" vflCapabilityType: "VFL_CLIENT" vflInterInfo: "List1" featureIds: "A", "C"  NWDAF4: mlAnalyticsIds: "SIGNALLING_STORM" vflCapabilityType: "VFL_CLIENT" vflInterInfo: "List2" featureIds: "A", "C"  When the query includes:  mlAnalyticsIds: "SIGNALLING_STORM" vflCapabilityType: "VFL_CLIENT" vflInterInfo: "List1" featureIds: "A", "C";  the NRF shall return NWDAF1 and NWDAF2 which together support the requested feature IDs for the requested mlAnalyticsIds.  To address a query of "featureIds", the NRF shall return all matching profiles that together support all of the requested feature IDs. For example, if NWDAF5 is also registered to the NRF:  NWDAF5: mlAnalyticsIds: "SIGNALLING_STORM" vflCapabilityType: "VFL_SERVER_AND_CLIENT" vflInterInfo: "List1" featureIds: "C";  for the same query parameter, the NRF shall return NWDAF1, NWDAF2 and NWDAF5. It is left to the NF consumer's implementation whether and how to select among the discovery results.	Query-AIML-CN
lom-tai-list	array(Tai)	O	1..N	If present, this IE shall indicate the list of TAIs for which I-SMF instances requested to be discovered supports acting as an I-SMF for I-SMF based local offloading management. The NRF shall return SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for I-SMF based local offloading management for at least one TAI in the list. (NOTE 36)	Query-EDGE-Ph3
aiml-positioning-ind	boolean	O	0..1	This IE may be included when the target NF type is "LMF".  When present, this IE indicates whether LMF(s) supporting AIML positioning capability are desired to be discovered.  true: target LMF(s) supporting AIML positioning capability are desired to be discovered.  Presence of this IE with false value shall be prohibited.	Query-AIML-CN
pra-id-list	array(string)	O	1..N	This IE may be included if the target NF type is "AMF".  When present, this IE indicates that target NF producer(s) supporting the indicated Core Network predefined PRA ID(s) to be discovered. The NRF shall return the target NF Producer(s) supporting at least one Core Network predefined PRA ID indicated in the list.  The value of each array item shall be encoded as a string representing an integer in the following ranges for Core Network predefined PRA (see clause 28.10 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [12]): 8 388 608 to 16 777 215 for Core Network predefined PRA.  Examples: PRA ID 11 238 660 is encoded as "11238660"	Query_PRA_AMF
aiot-area-ids	array(AiotAreaId)	O	1..N	If present, this IE contains the list of Area IDs that is required to be supported by the AIOTF to be discovered.	Query-AIoT
aiot-device-id	AiotDevPermId	O	0..1	The presence of this IE indicates that NRF shall return the NF producers (e.g. ADM) that can serve the indicated AIoT Device Id.	Query-AIoT
any-ue-ind	boolean	O	0..1	If included and true, indicates that the NF to be discovered stores application data targeted to any UE. May be included if the target NF type is "UDR" or "UDM".	Query-SBIProtoc19
NOTE 1:	If this parameter is present and no AMF supporting the requested GUAMI is available due to AMF Failure or planned AMF removal, the NRF shall return in the response AMF instances acting as a backup for AMF failure or planned AMF removal respectively for this GUAMI (see clause 6.1.6.2.11). The NRF can detect if an AMF has failed, using the Heartbeat procedure. The NRF will receive a de-registration request from an AMF performing a planned removal. NOTE 2:	If the combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the SMF instances registered with the SmfInfo containing pgwFqdn. NOTE 3:	If a UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the UPF instances registered with the upfInfo containing iwkEpsInd set to true. NOTE 4:	This attribute has a different semantic than what is defined in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], i.e. it is not used to signal the features of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API supported by the requester NF. NOTE 5:	The AMF may perform the SMF discovery based on the dnn, snssais and preferred-tai during a PDU session establishment procedure, and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles matching all if possible, or the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais. If the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais are returned, the AMF shall insert an I-SMF. An SMF may also perform a UPF discovery using this parameter. NOTE 6:	The SMF may select the P-CSCF close to the UPF by setting the preferred-locality to the value of the locality of the UPF. NOTE 7:	During EPS to 5GS idle mobility procedure, the Requester NF (i.e. SMF) discovers the anchor NEF for NIDD using the SCEF ID received from EPS as the value of the NEF ID, as specified in clause 4.11.1.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. NOTE 8:	The service consumer may include a list of preferred-nf-instance-ids in the query. If so, the NRF shall first check if the NF profiles of the preferred NF instances match the other query parameters, and if so, then the NRF shall return the corresponding NF profiles; otherwise, the NRF shall return a list of candidate NF profiles matching the query parameters other than the preferred-nf-instance-ids. For example, the target AMF may set this query parameter to the SMF Instance ID and I-SMF Instance ID during an inter AMF mobility procedure to select an I-SMF. NOTE 9:	This parameter may be used by the SCP (with other query parameters) to discover and select a NF service consumer with a default notification subscription supporting the notification type of a notification request (see clause 6.10.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). NOTE 10:	An S-NSSAI value used in discovery request query parameters shall be considered as matching the S-NSSAI value in the NF Profile or NF Service of a given NF Instance if both the SST and SD components are identical (i.e. an S-NSSAI value where SD is absent, shall not be considered as matching an S-NSSAI where SD is present, regardless if SST is equal in both). NOTE 11:	The dnn query parameter shall be considered as matching a DNN attribute in the NF Profile of a given NF Instance if: -	both contain the same Network Identifier and Operator Identifier; -	both contain the same Network Identifier and none contains an Operator Identifier; -	the dnn query parameter contains the Network Identifier only, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, and both contain the same Network Identifier; or -	the dnn query parameter contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains the Network Identifier only, both contain the same Network Identifier and the Operator Identifier matches one PLMN of the NF (i.e. plmnList of the NF Profile). NOTE 12:	Based on operator's policies, a discovery request not including the requester's information necessary to validate the authorization parameters in NF Profiles may be rejected or accepted but with only returning in the discovery response NF Instances whose authorization parameters allow any NF Service Consumer to access their services. The authorization parameters in NF Profile are those used by NRF to determine whether a given NF Instance / NF Service Instance can be discovered by an NF Service Consumer in order to consume its offered services (e.g. "allowedNfTypes", "allowedNfDomains", etc.). NOTE 13:	Different UPF instances for data forwarding may be configured in the network e.g. for different serving areas. The SMF may use this query parameter together with others (like SMF Serving Area or TAI) in discovery to select the UPF candidate for data forwarding. NOTE 14:	For HR roaming, if the V-PLMN requires Deployments Topologies with specific SMF Service Areas (DTSSA) but no H-SMF can be selected supporting V-SMF change, AMF may use this query parameter to select a V-SMF serving the full VPLMN if available. NOTE 15:	The AMF may perform discovery with this parameter to find V-SMF(s)/I-SMF(s), and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability, if the vsmf-support-ind/ismf-support-ind query parameter is present and set to true. When performing discovery, the AMF shall use other query parameters together with this IE to ensure the required configurations and/or features are supported by the V-SMF/I-SMF(s), e.g. required Slice for the PDU session, support of DTSSA feature if V-SMF change is required for PDU Session, etc. If no SMF instances that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability can be matched for the discovery, the NRF shall return matched SMF instances not indicating support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability explicitly, i.e. the SMF instances not registered vsmfSupportInd/ismfSupportInd IE in the NF profile but matched to the rest query parameters, if available. NOTE 16:	When required-pfcp-features is used as query parameter, the NRF shall return a list of candidate UPFs supporting all the required PFCP features. The NRF may also return UPF profiles not including the "SupportedPfcpFeatures" attribute (e.g. pre-Rel-17 UPFs) but matching the other query parameters. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. a SMF, when using required-pfcp-features as query parameter, shall also include the query parameter corresponding to the UPF features (atsss-capability, upf-ue-ip-addr-ind, redundant-gtpu) which correspond to the PFCP feature flags MPTCP and ATSSS_LL, UEIP, and RTTL respectively, if the corresponding PFCP feature is required. For example an SMF, that wishes to select a UPF supporting UE IP Address Allocation by the UP function, shall set the UEIP flag to "1" in the required-pfcp-features and also include the upf-ue-ip-addr-ind parameter set to "true". NOTE 17:	In this release, the usage of Home Network Public Key identifier for AUSF/UDM discovery is limited to the scenario where the AUSF/UDM NF consumers belong to the same PLMN as AUSF/UDM. NOTE 18:	The NF service consumer may derive the serving scope from e.g. the TAI of the UE, using local configuration. This parameter may be used to discover any NF that registers to the NRF, e.g. a 5GC NF or a P-CSCF. NOTE 19:	If the NRF supports the "Collocated-NF-Selection" feature and the NF service consumer has included the "preferred-collocated-nf-types" attribute, the NRF shall return a list of candidates NFs (for the target-nf-type) matching the discovery query parameters and preferentially supporting CollocatedNfType(s) as indicated in the preferred-collocated-nf-types. NOTE 20:	If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "true" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "false" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. NOTE 21:	Either pgw-ind IE or preferred-pgw-ind IE may be included in the discovery request. NOTE 22:	MB-SMF may use an NRF to discover the AMF(s) serving an MBS service area (see clause 7.3.1 in 3GPP TS 23.247 [43]. For this purpose, the MB-SMF may use query parameters specified in this table, e.g.  'tai' and 'service-names', or 'snssais', or any other parameters. NOTE 23:	This parameter may be set by an NF service consumer or SCP to filter-out specific NF (service) instances or NF (service) sets from the NF Discovery response, e.g. when the NFc knows that an NF service producer is not responsive or overloaded. See the 3gpp-Sbi-Selection-Info header in clause 5.2.3.3.10 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. NOTE 24:	A feature shall not be included in both required-features IE and preferred-features IE in the same discovery request. NOTE 25:	When Locality is configured in a specific NF (e.g. NSACF, MRF/MRFP/MF, EIF, etc.), the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF/SMF as service consumer of an NSACF, IMS entity as service consumer of an MRF/MRFP/MF, NEF/AF/PCF as service consumer of an EIF, etc.) may use a locally configured Locality of the target NF to discover the candidate NF, or otherwise may use its own Locality to discover the candidate NF. NOTE 26:	Only one of the target-nf-instance-id and target-nf-instance-id-list query parameters may be present in an NF Discovery Request. NOTE 27:	When the query parameter "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is used to discover a UPF as specified in clause 4.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the NRF shall find a match by looking into either natedIpv4AddressRanges or natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. NOTE 28:	If the NF service consumer includes a "tai-list" query parameter and the "nf-tai-list-ind" query parameter set to true, and if the NRF supports the same and the NRF is not able to find any NF supporting all TAs included in the tai-list, the NRF may return a list of NFs in the SearchResult where each NF supports at least one TA in the tai-list; in this case, the NRF should attempt to return a list of NFs that altogether support as many TAIs from the tai-list as possible, and it should indicate in the SearchResultInfo attribute the list of TAIs from the tai-list which are not supported by these NFs. NOTE 29:	The NRF should return as many matching NF profiles and/or NF Instance IDs as possible in the NF Discovery Response. If all the NF profiles matching the query parameters cannot be returned in the NF Discovery response (e.g. due to the maximum payload size), the NRF may decide to store the complete search result for subsequent retrieval by the NRF consumer (see clause 6.2.3.4). Alternatively, the NRF may include all the NF instance IDs rather than NF profiles in the NF Discovery response (using the Enh-NF-Discovery feature, see clause 5.3.2.2.2). NOTE 30:	For SMF discovery, when an AMF supports the "subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature as specified in clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and it receives the targetPlmnId as part of SmfSelectionSubscriptionData, it shall include the targetPlmnId as Operator Identifier in the DNN to select a SMF in that PLMN. NOTE 31:	In the case of Indirect Network Sharing deployments, the AMF may also include this parameter for discovery of the H-SMF in participating operator's network, based on the UE location as described in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. If including this parameter for the H-SMF discovery, the AMF shall be configured with the corresponding values for this parameter that are applicable for the participating operator's network based on the coordination between the hosting operator and the participating operator. How the AMF derives this parameter based on UE location is implementation specific. NOTE 32:	For AUSF/UDM discovery, when AUSF/UDM is deployed in partner PLMN, the NRF may further interact with the NRF in the target PLMN to discover the AUSF/UDM in that target PLMN based on the configuration for the Routing Indicators and/or SUPI ranges as specified in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3. NOTE 33:	A NF service consumer may use the UE IP address which may be set to either a "ue-ipv4-address" optionally together with an "ip-domain", or "ue-ipv6-prefix" to discover the serving PSA UPF (for that UE IP address). If the "ip-domain" is present, the NRF shall find a match by looking into the privateIpv4AddressRangesPerIpDomain in the DnnUpfInfoItem. When the "ip-domain" is not present, either "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is included to contain the UE IPv4 or IPv6 IP address respectively in the discovery request, the NRF shall find a match by looking into either the Ipv4AddressRanges or the natedIpv4AddressRanges, or the Ipv6PrefixRanges or the natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. (See also the NOTE 27 which is for the scenario using a NATed IP address to find the serving UPF) NOTE 34:	When upf-packet-inspection-func is used as query parameter, pre-Rel-19 UPFs which support the required packet inspection functionalities and match the other query parameters but cannot register such functionalities in NRF may not be returned. The use of the preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func query parameter should be preferred in deployments with such UPFs. NOTE 35:	P-CSCF discovery with these parameters shall only be allowed when the NRF support the "Enh-PCSCF-Disc" feature. NOTE 36:	This query parameter may be set e.g. by an AMF configured with a local offloading management service area to look up for SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for TAI(s) of the local offloading management service area.	NOTE 1:	If this parameter is present and no AMF supporting the requested GUAMI is available due to AMF Failure or planned AMF removal, the NRF shall return in the response AMF instances acting as a backup for AMF failure or planned AMF removal respectively for this GUAMI (see clause 6.1.6.2.11). The NRF can detect if an AMF has failed, using the Heartbeat procedure. The NRF will receive a de-registration request from an AMF performing a planned removal. NOTE 2:	If the combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the SMF instances registered with the SmfInfo containing pgwFqdn. NOTE 3:	If a UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the UPF instances registered with the upfInfo containing iwkEpsInd set to true. NOTE 4:	This attribute has a different semantic than what is defined in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], i.e. it is not used to signal the features of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API supported by the requester NF. NOTE 5:	The AMF may perform the SMF discovery based on the dnn, snssais and preferred-tai during a PDU session establishment procedure, and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles matching all if possible, or the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais. If the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais are returned, the AMF shall insert an I-SMF. An SMF may also perform a UPF discovery using this parameter. NOTE 6:	The SMF may select the P-CSCF close to the UPF by setting the preferred-locality to the value of the locality of the UPF. NOTE 7:	During EPS to 5GS idle mobility procedure, the Requester NF (i.e. SMF) discovers the anchor NEF for NIDD using the SCEF ID received from EPS as the value of the NEF ID, as specified in clause 4.11.1.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. NOTE 8:	The service consumer may include a list of preferred-nf-instance-ids in the query. If so, the NRF shall first check if the NF profiles of the preferred NF instances match the other query parameters, and if so, then the NRF shall return the corresponding NF profiles; otherwise, the NRF shall return a list of candidate NF profiles matching the query parameters other than the preferred-nf-instance-ids. For example, the target AMF may set this query parameter to the SMF Instance ID and I-SMF Instance ID during an inter AMF mobility procedure to select an I-SMF. NOTE 9:	This parameter may be used by the SCP (with other query parameters) to discover and select a NF service consumer with a default notification subscription supporting the notification type of a notification request (see clause 6.10.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). NOTE 10:	An S-NSSAI value used in discovery request query parameters shall be considered as matching the S-NSSAI value in the NF Profile or NF Service of a given NF Instance if both the SST and SD components are identical (i.e. an S-NSSAI value where SD is absent, shall not be considered as matching an S-NSSAI where SD is present, regardless if SST is equal in both). NOTE 11:	The dnn query parameter shall be considered as matching a DNN attribute in the NF Profile of a given NF Instance if: -	both contain the same Network Identifier and Operator Identifier; -	both contain the same Network Identifier and none contains an Operator Identifier; -	the dnn query parameter contains the Network Identifier only, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, and both contain the same Network Identifier; or -	the dnn query parameter contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains the Network Identifier only, both contain the same Network Identifier and the Operator Identifier matches one PLMN of the NF (i.e. plmnList of the NF Profile). NOTE 12:	Based on operator's policies, a discovery request not including the requester's information necessary to validate the authorization parameters in NF Profiles may be rejected or accepted but with only returning in the discovery response NF Instances whose authorization parameters allow any NF Service Consumer to access their services. The authorization parameters in NF Profile are those used by NRF to determine whether a given NF Instance / NF Service Instance can be discovered by an NF Service Consumer in order to consume its offered services (e.g. "allowedNfTypes", "allowedNfDomains", etc.). NOTE 13:	Different UPF instances for data forwarding may be configured in the network e.g. for different serving areas. The SMF may use this query parameter together with others (like SMF Serving Area or TAI) in discovery to select the UPF candidate for data forwarding. NOTE 14:	For HR roaming, if the V-PLMN requires Deployments Topologies with specific SMF Service Areas (DTSSA) but no H-SMF can be selected supporting V-SMF change, AMF may use this query parameter to select a V-SMF serving the full VPLMN if available. NOTE 15:	The AMF may perform discovery with this parameter to find V-SMF(s)/I-SMF(s), and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability, if the vsmf-support-ind/ismf-support-ind query parameter is present and set to true. When performing discovery, the AMF shall use other query parameters together with this IE to ensure the required configurations and/or features are supported by the V-SMF/I-SMF(s), e.g. required Slice for the PDU session, support of DTSSA feature if V-SMF change is required for PDU Session, etc. If no SMF instances that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability can be matched for the discovery, the NRF shall return matched SMF instances not indicating support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability explicitly, i.e. the SMF instances not registered vsmfSupportInd/ismfSupportInd IE in the NF profile but matched to the rest query parameters, if available. NOTE 16:	When required-pfcp-features is used as query parameter, the NRF shall return a list of candidate UPFs supporting all the required PFCP features. The NRF may also return UPF profiles not including the "SupportedPfcpFeatures" attribute (e.g. pre-Rel-17 UPFs) but matching the other query parameters. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. a SMF, when using required-pfcp-features as query parameter, shall also include the query parameter corresponding to the UPF features (atsss-capability, upf-ue-ip-addr-ind, redundant-gtpu) which correspond to the PFCP feature flags MPTCP and ATSSS_LL, UEIP, and RTTL respectively, if the corresponding PFCP feature is required. For example an SMF, that wishes to select a UPF supporting UE IP Address Allocation by the UP function, shall set the UEIP flag to "1" in the required-pfcp-features and also include the upf-ue-ip-addr-ind parameter set to "true". NOTE 17:	In this release, the usage of Home Network Public Key identifier for AUSF/UDM discovery is limited to the scenario where the AUSF/UDM NF consumers belong to the same PLMN as AUSF/UDM. NOTE 18:	The NF service consumer may derive the serving scope from e.g. the TAI of the UE, using local configuration. This parameter may be used to discover any NF that registers to the NRF, e.g. a 5GC NF or a P-CSCF. NOTE 19:	If the NRF supports the "Collocated-NF-Selection" feature and the NF service consumer has included the "preferred-collocated-nf-types" attribute, the NRF shall return a list of candidates NFs (for the target-nf-type) matching the discovery query parameters and preferentially supporting CollocatedNfType(s) as indicated in the preferred-collocated-nf-types. NOTE 20:	If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "true" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "false" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. NOTE 21:	Either pgw-ind IE or preferred-pgw-ind IE may be included in the discovery request. NOTE 22:	MB-SMF may use an NRF to discover the AMF(s) serving an MBS service area (see clause 7.3.1 in 3GPP TS 23.247 [43]. For this purpose, the MB-SMF may use query parameters specified in this table, e.g.  'tai' and 'service-names', or 'snssais', or any other parameters. NOTE 23:	This parameter may be set by an NF service consumer or SCP to filter-out specific NF (service) instances or NF (service) sets from the NF Discovery response, e.g. when the NFc knows that an NF service producer is not responsive or overloaded. See the 3gpp-Sbi-Selection-Info header in clause 5.2.3.3.10 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. NOTE 24:	A feature shall not be included in both required-features IE and preferred-features IE in the same discovery request. NOTE 25:	When Locality is configured in a specific NF (e.g. NSACF, MRF/MRFP/MF, EIF, etc.), the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF/SMF as service consumer of an NSACF, IMS entity as service consumer of an MRF/MRFP/MF, NEF/AF/PCF as service consumer of an EIF, etc.) may use a locally configured Locality of the target NF to discover the candidate NF, or otherwise may use its own Locality to discover the candidate NF. NOTE 26:	Only one of the target-nf-instance-id and target-nf-instance-id-list query parameters may be present in an NF Discovery Request. NOTE 27:	When the query parameter "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is used to discover a UPF as specified in clause 4.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the NRF shall find a match by looking into either natedIpv4AddressRanges or natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. NOTE 28:	If the NF service consumer includes a "tai-list" query parameter and the "nf-tai-list-ind" query parameter set to true, and if the NRF supports the same and the NRF is not able to find any NF supporting all TAs included in the tai-list, the NRF may return a list of NFs in the SearchResult where each NF supports at least one TA in the tai-list; in this case, the NRF should attempt to return a list of NFs that altogether support as many TAIs from the tai-list as possible, and it should indicate in the SearchResultInfo attribute the list of TAIs from the tai-list which are not supported by these NFs. NOTE 29:	The NRF should return as many matching NF profiles and/or NF Instance IDs as possible in the NF Discovery Response. If all the NF profiles matching the query parameters cannot be returned in the NF Discovery response (e.g. due to the maximum payload size), the NRF may decide to store the complete search result for subsequent retrieval by the NRF consumer (see clause 6.2.3.4). Alternatively, the NRF may include all the NF instance IDs rather than NF profiles in the NF Discovery response (using the Enh-NF-Discovery feature, see clause 5.3.2.2.2). NOTE 30:	For SMF discovery, when an AMF supports the "subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature as specified in clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and it receives the targetPlmnId as part of SmfSelectionSubscriptionData, it shall include the targetPlmnId as Operator Identifier in the DNN to select a SMF in that PLMN. NOTE 31:	In the case of Indirect Network Sharing deployments, the AMF may also include this parameter for discovery of the H-SMF in participating operator's network, based on the UE location as described in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. If including this parameter for the H-SMF discovery, the AMF shall be configured with the corresponding values for this parameter that are applicable for the participating operator's network based on the coordination between the hosting operator and the participating operator. How the AMF derives this parameter based on UE location is implementation specific. NOTE 32:	For AUSF/UDM discovery, when AUSF/UDM is deployed in partner PLMN, the NRF may further interact with the NRF in the target PLMN to discover the AUSF/UDM in that target PLMN based on the configuration for the Routing Indicators and/or SUPI ranges as specified in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3. NOTE 33:	A NF service consumer may use the UE IP address which may be set to either a "ue-ipv4-address" optionally together with an "ip-domain", or "ue-ipv6-prefix" to discover the serving PSA UPF (for that UE IP address). If the "ip-domain" is present, the NRF shall find a match by looking into the privateIpv4AddressRangesPerIpDomain in the DnnUpfInfoItem. When the "ip-domain" is not present, either "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is included to contain the UE IPv4 or IPv6 IP address respectively in the discovery request, the NRF shall find a match by looking into either the Ipv4AddressRanges or the natedIpv4AddressRanges, or the Ipv6PrefixRanges or the natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. (See also the NOTE 27 which is for the scenario using a NATed IP address to find the serving UPF) NOTE 34:	When upf-packet-inspection-func is used as query parameter, pre-Rel-19 UPFs which support the required packet inspection functionalities and match the other query parameters but cannot register such functionalities in NRF may not be returned. The use of the preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func query parameter should be preferred in deployments with such UPFs. NOTE 35:	P-CSCF discovery with these parameters shall only be allowed when the NRF support the "Enh-PCSCF-Disc" feature. NOTE 36:	This query parameter may be set e.g. by an AMF configured with a local offloading management service area to look up for SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for TAI(s) of the local offloading management service area.	NOTE 1:	If this parameter is present and no AMF supporting the requested GUAMI is available due to AMF Failure or planned AMF removal, the NRF shall return in the response AMF instances acting as a backup for AMF failure or planned AMF removal respectively for this GUAMI (see clause 6.1.6.2.11). The NRF can detect if an AMF has failed, using the Heartbeat procedure. The NRF will receive a de-registration request from an AMF performing a planned removal. NOTE 2:	If the combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the SMF instances registered with the SmfInfo containing pgwFqdn. NOTE 3:	If a UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the UPF instances registered with the upfInfo containing iwkEpsInd set to true. NOTE 4:	This attribute has a different semantic than what is defined in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], i.e. it is not used to signal the features of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API supported by the requester NF. NOTE 5:	The AMF may perform the SMF discovery based on the dnn, snssais and preferred-tai during a PDU session establishment procedure, and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles matching all if possible, or the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais. If the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais are returned, the AMF shall insert an I-SMF. An SMF may also perform a UPF discovery using this parameter. NOTE 6:	The SMF may select the P-CSCF close to the UPF by setting the preferred-locality to the value of the locality of the UPF. NOTE 7:	During EPS to 5GS idle mobility procedure, the Requester NF (i.e. SMF) discovers the anchor NEF for NIDD using the SCEF ID received from EPS as the value of the NEF ID, as specified in clause 4.11.1.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. NOTE 8:	The service consumer may include a list of preferred-nf-instance-ids in the query. If so, the NRF shall first check if the NF profiles of the preferred NF instances match the other query parameters, and if so, then the NRF shall return the corresponding NF profiles; otherwise, the NRF shall return a list of candidate NF profiles matching the query parameters other than the preferred-nf-instance-ids. For example, the target AMF may set this query parameter to the SMF Instance ID and I-SMF Instance ID during an inter AMF mobility procedure to select an I-SMF. NOTE 9:	This parameter may be used by the SCP (with other query parameters) to discover and select a NF service consumer with a default notification subscription supporting the notification type of a notification request (see clause 6.10.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). NOTE 10:	An S-NSSAI value used in discovery request query parameters shall be considered as matching the S-NSSAI value in the NF Profile or NF Service of a given NF Instance if both the SST and SD components are identical (i.e. an S-NSSAI value where SD is absent, shall not be considered as matching an S-NSSAI where SD is present, regardless if SST is equal in both). NOTE 11:	The dnn query parameter shall be considered as matching a DNN attribute in the NF Profile of a given NF Instance if: -	both contain the same Network Identifier and Operator Identifier; -	both contain the same Network Identifier and none contains an Operator Identifier; -	the dnn query parameter contains the Network Identifier only, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, and both contain the same Network Identifier; or -	the dnn query parameter contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains the Network Identifier only, both contain the same Network Identifier and the Operator Identifier matches one PLMN of the NF (i.e. plmnList of the NF Profile). NOTE 12:	Based on operator's policies, a discovery request not including the requester's information necessary to validate the authorization parameters in NF Profiles may be rejected or accepted but with only returning in the discovery response NF Instances whose authorization parameters allow any NF Service Consumer to access their services. The authorization parameters in NF Profile are those used by NRF to determine whether a given NF Instance / NF Service Instance can be discovered by an NF Service Consumer in order to consume its offered services (e.g. "allowedNfTypes", "allowedNfDomains", etc.). NOTE 13:	Different UPF instances for data forwarding may be configured in the network e.g. for different serving areas. The SMF may use this query parameter together with others (like SMF Serving Area or TAI) in discovery to select the UPF candidate for data forwarding. NOTE 14:	For HR roaming, if the V-PLMN requires Deployments Topologies with specific SMF Service Areas (DTSSA) but no H-SMF can be selected supporting V-SMF change, AMF may use this query parameter to select a V-SMF serving the full VPLMN if available. NOTE 15:	The AMF may perform discovery with this parameter to find V-SMF(s)/I-SMF(s), and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability, if the vsmf-support-ind/ismf-support-ind query parameter is present and set to true. When performing discovery, the AMF shall use other query parameters together with this IE to ensure the required configurations and/or features are supported by the V-SMF/I-SMF(s), e.g. required Slice for the PDU session, support of DTSSA feature if V-SMF change is required for PDU Session, etc. If no SMF instances that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability can be matched for the discovery, the NRF shall return matched SMF instances not indicating support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability explicitly, i.e. the SMF instances not registered vsmfSupportInd/ismfSupportInd IE in the NF profile but matched to the rest query parameters, if available. NOTE 16:	When required-pfcp-features is used as query parameter, the NRF shall return a list of candidate UPFs supporting all the required PFCP features. The NRF may also return UPF profiles not including the "SupportedPfcpFeatures" attribute (e.g. pre-Rel-17 UPFs) but matching the other query parameters. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. a SMF, when using required-pfcp-features as query parameter, shall also include the query parameter corresponding to the UPF features (atsss-capability, upf-ue-ip-addr-ind, redundant-gtpu) which correspond to the PFCP feature flags MPTCP and ATSSS_LL, UEIP, and RTTL respectively, if the corresponding PFCP feature is required. For example an SMF, that wishes to select a UPF supporting UE IP Address Allocation by the UP function, shall set the UEIP flag to "1" in the required-pfcp-features and also include the upf-ue-ip-addr-ind parameter set to "true". NOTE 17:	In this release, the usage of Home Network Public Key identifier for AUSF/UDM discovery is limited to the scenario where the AUSF/UDM NF consumers belong to the same PLMN as AUSF/UDM. NOTE 18:	The NF service consumer may derive the serving scope from e.g. the TAI of the UE, using local configuration. This parameter may be used to discover any NF that registers to the NRF, e.g. a 5GC NF or a P-CSCF. NOTE 19:	If the NRF supports the "Collocated-NF-Selection" feature and the NF service consumer has included the "preferred-collocated-nf-types" attribute, the NRF shall return a list of candidates NFs (for the target-nf-type) matching the discovery query parameters and preferentially supporting CollocatedNfType(s) as indicated in the preferred-collocated-nf-types. NOTE 20:	If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "true" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "false" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. NOTE 21:	Either pgw-ind IE or preferred-pgw-ind IE may be included in the discovery request. NOTE 22:	MB-SMF may use an NRF to discover the AMF(s) serving an MBS service area (see clause 7.3.1 in 3GPP TS 23.247 [43]. For this purpose, the MB-SMF may use query parameters specified in this table, e.g.  'tai' and 'service-names', or 'snssais', or any other parameters. NOTE 23:	This parameter may be set by an NF service consumer or SCP to filter-out specific NF (service) instances or NF (service) sets from the NF Discovery response, e.g. when the NFc knows that an NF service producer is not responsive or overloaded. See the 3gpp-Sbi-Selection-Info header in clause 5.2.3.3.10 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. NOTE 24:	A feature shall not be included in both required-features IE and preferred-features IE in the same discovery request. NOTE 25:	When Locality is configured in a specific NF (e.g. NSACF, MRF/MRFP/MF, EIF, etc.), the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF/SMF as service consumer of an NSACF, IMS entity as service consumer of an MRF/MRFP/MF, NEF/AF/PCF as service consumer of an EIF, etc.) may use a locally configured Locality of the target NF to discover the candidate NF, or otherwise may use its own Locality to discover the candidate NF. NOTE 26:	Only one of the target-nf-instance-id and target-nf-instance-id-list query parameters may be present in an NF Discovery Request. NOTE 27:	When the query parameter "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is used to discover a UPF as specified in clause 4.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the NRF shall find a match by looking into either natedIpv4AddressRanges or natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. NOTE 28:	If the NF service consumer includes a "tai-list" query parameter and the "nf-tai-list-ind" query parameter set to true, and if the NRF supports the same and the NRF is not able to find any NF supporting all TAs included in the tai-list, the NRF may return a list of NFs in the SearchResult where each NF supports at least one TA in the tai-list; in this case, the NRF should attempt to return a list of NFs that altogether support as many TAIs from the tai-list as possible, and it should indicate in the SearchResultInfo attribute the list of TAIs from the tai-list which are not supported by these NFs. NOTE 29:	The NRF should return as many matching NF profiles and/or NF Instance IDs as possible in the NF Discovery Response. If all the NF profiles matching the query parameters cannot be returned in the NF Discovery response (e.g. due to the maximum payload size), the NRF may decide to store the complete search result for subsequent retrieval by the NRF consumer (see clause 6.2.3.4). Alternatively, the NRF may include all the NF instance IDs rather than NF profiles in the NF Discovery response (using the Enh-NF-Discovery feature, see clause 5.3.2.2.2). NOTE 30:	For SMF discovery, when an AMF supports the "subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature as specified in clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and it receives the targetPlmnId as part of SmfSelectionSubscriptionData, it shall include the targetPlmnId as Operator Identifier in the DNN to select a SMF in that PLMN. NOTE 31:	In the case of Indirect Network Sharing deployments, the AMF may also include this parameter for discovery of the H-SMF in participating operator's network, based on the UE location as described in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. If including this parameter for the H-SMF discovery, the AMF shall be configured with the corresponding values for this parameter that are applicable for the participating operator's network based on the coordination between the hosting operator and the participating operator. How the AMF derives this parameter based on UE location is implementation specific. NOTE 32:	For AUSF/UDM discovery, when AUSF/UDM is deployed in partner PLMN, the NRF may further interact with the NRF in the target PLMN to discover the AUSF/UDM in that target PLMN based on the configuration for the Routing Indicators and/or SUPI ranges as specified in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3. NOTE 33:	A NF service consumer may use the UE IP address which may be set to either a "ue-ipv4-address" optionally together with an "ip-domain", or "ue-ipv6-prefix" to discover the serving PSA UPF (for that UE IP address). If the "ip-domain" is present, the NRF shall find a match by looking into the privateIpv4AddressRangesPerIpDomain in the DnnUpfInfoItem. When the "ip-domain" is not present, either "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is included to contain the UE IPv4 or IPv6 IP address respectively in the discovery request, the NRF shall find a match by looking into either the Ipv4AddressRanges or the natedIpv4AddressRanges, or the Ipv6PrefixRanges or the natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. (See also the NOTE 27 which is for the scenario using a NATed IP address to find the serving UPF) NOTE 34:	When upf-packet-inspection-func is used as query parameter, pre-Rel-19 UPFs which support the required packet inspection functionalities and match the other query parameters but cannot register such functionalities in NRF may not be returned. The use of the preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func query parameter should be preferred in deployments with such UPFs. NOTE 35:	P-CSCF discovery with these parameters shall only be allowed when the NRF support the "Enh-PCSCF-Disc" feature. NOTE 36:	This query parameter may be set e.g. by an AMF configured with a local offloading management service area to look up for SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for TAI(s) of the local offloading management service area.	NOTE 1:	If this parameter is present and no AMF supporting the requested GUAMI is available due to AMF Failure or planned AMF removal, the NRF shall return in the response AMF instances acting as a backup for AMF failure or planned AMF removal respectively for this GUAMI (see clause 6.1.6.2.11). The NRF can detect if an AMF has failed, using the Heartbeat procedure. The NRF will receive a de-registration request from an AMF performing a planned removal. NOTE 2:	If the combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the SMF instances registered with the SmfInfo containing pgwFqdn. NOTE 3:	If a UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the UPF instances registered with the upfInfo containing iwkEpsInd set to true. NOTE 4:	This attribute has a different semantic than what is defined in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], i.e. it is not used to signal the features of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API supported by the requester NF. NOTE 5:	The AMF may perform the SMF discovery based on the dnn, snssais and preferred-tai during a PDU session establishment procedure, and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles matching all if possible, or the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais. If the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais are returned, the AMF shall insert an I-SMF. An SMF may also perform a UPF discovery using this parameter. NOTE 6:	The SMF may select the P-CSCF close to the UPF by setting the preferred-locality to the value of the locality of the UPF. NOTE 7:	During EPS to 5GS idle mobility procedure, the Requester NF (i.e. SMF) discovers the anchor NEF for NIDD using the SCEF ID received from EPS as the value of the NEF ID, as specified in clause 4.11.1.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. NOTE 8:	The service consumer may include a list of preferred-nf-instance-ids in the query. If so, the NRF shall first check if the NF profiles of the preferred NF instances match the other query parameters, and if so, then the NRF shall return the corresponding NF profiles; otherwise, the NRF shall return a list of candidate NF profiles matching the query parameters other than the preferred-nf-instance-ids. For example, the target AMF may set this query parameter to the SMF Instance ID and I-SMF Instance ID during an inter AMF mobility procedure to select an I-SMF. NOTE 9:	This parameter may be used by the SCP (with other query parameters) to discover and select a NF service consumer with a default notification subscription supporting the notification type of a notification request (see clause 6.10.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). NOTE 10:	An S-NSSAI value used in discovery request query parameters shall be considered as matching the S-NSSAI value in the NF Profile or NF Service of a given NF Instance if both the SST and SD components are identical (i.e. an S-NSSAI value where SD is absent, shall not be considered as matching an S-NSSAI where SD is present, regardless if SST is equal in both). NOTE 11:	The dnn query parameter shall be considered as matching a DNN attribute in the NF Profile of a given NF Instance if: -	both contain the same Network Identifier and Operator Identifier; -	both contain the same Network Identifier and none contains an Operator Identifier; -	the dnn query parameter contains the Network Identifier only, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, and both contain the same Network Identifier; or -	the dnn query parameter contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains the Network Identifier only, both contain the same Network Identifier and the Operator Identifier matches one PLMN of the NF (i.e. plmnList of the NF Profile). NOTE 12:	Based on operator's policies, a discovery request not including the requester's information necessary to validate the authorization parameters in NF Profiles may be rejected or accepted but with only returning in the discovery response NF Instances whose authorization parameters allow any NF Service Consumer to access their services. The authorization parameters in NF Profile are those used by NRF to determine whether a given NF Instance / NF Service Instance can be discovered by an NF Service Consumer in order to consume its offered services (e.g. "allowedNfTypes", "allowedNfDomains", etc.). NOTE 13:	Different UPF instances for data forwarding may be configured in the network e.g. for different serving areas. The SMF may use this query parameter together with others (like SMF Serving Area or TAI) in discovery to select the UPF candidate for data forwarding. NOTE 14:	For HR roaming, if the V-PLMN requires Deployments Topologies with specific SMF Service Areas (DTSSA) but no H-SMF can be selected supporting V-SMF change, AMF may use this query parameter to select a V-SMF serving the full VPLMN if available. NOTE 15:	The AMF may perform discovery with this parameter to find V-SMF(s)/I-SMF(s), and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability, if the vsmf-support-ind/ismf-support-ind query parameter is present and set to true. When performing discovery, the AMF shall use other query parameters together with this IE to ensure the required configurations and/or features are supported by the V-SMF/I-SMF(s), e.g. required Slice for the PDU session, support of DTSSA feature if V-SMF change is required for PDU Session, etc. If no SMF instances that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability can be matched for the discovery, the NRF shall return matched SMF instances not indicating support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability explicitly, i.e. the SMF instances not registered vsmfSupportInd/ismfSupportInd IE in the NF profile but matched to the rest query parameters, if available. NOTE 16:	When required-pfcp-features is used as query parameter, the NRF shall return a list of candidate UPFs supporting all the required PFCP features. The NRF may also return UPF profiles not including the "SupportedPfcpFeatures" attribute (e.g. pre-Rel-17 UPFs) but matching the other query parameters. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. a SMF, when using required-pfcp-features as query parameter, shall also include the query parameter corresponding to the UPF features (atsss-capability, upf-ue-ip-addr-ind, redundant-gtpu) which correspond to the PFCP feature flags MPTCP and ATSSS_LL, UEIP, and RTTL respectively, if the corresponding PFCP feature is required. For example an SMF, that wishes to select a UPF supporting UE IP Address Allocation by the UP function, shall set the UEIP flag to "1" in the required-pfcp-features and also include the upf-ue-ip-addr-ind parameter set to "true". NOTE 17:	In this release, the usage of Home Network Public Key identifier for AUSF/UDM discovery is limited to the scenario where the AUSF/UDM NF consumers belong to the same PLMN as AUSF/UDM. NOTE 18:	The NF service consumer may derive the serving scope from e.g. the TAI of the UE, using local configuration. This parameter may be used to discover any NF that registers to the NRF, e.g. a 5GC NF or a P-CSCF. NOTE 19:	If the NRF supports the "Collocated-NF-Selection" feature and the NF service consumer has included the "preferred-collocated-nf-types" attribute, the NRF shall return a list of candidates NFs (for the target-nf-type) matching the discovery query parameters and preferentially supporting CollocatedNfType(s) as indicated in the preferred-collocated-nf-types. NOTE 20:	If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "true" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "false" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. NOTE 21:	Either pgw-ind IE or preferred-pgw-ind IE may be included in the discovery request. NOTE 22:	MB-SMF may use an NRF to discover the AMF(s) serving an MBS service area (see clause 7.3.1 in 3GPP TS 23.247 [43]. For this purpose, the MB-SMF may use query parameters specified in this table, e.g.  'tai' and 'service-names', or 'snssais', or any other parameters. NOTE 23:	This parameter may be set by an NF service consumer or SCP to filter-out specific NF (service) instances or NF (service) sets from the NF Discovery response, e.g. when the NFc knows that an NF service producer is not responsive or overloaded. See the 3gpp-Sbi-Selection-Info header in clause 5.2.3.3.10 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. NOTE 24:	A feature shall not be included in both required-features IE and preferred-features IE in the same discovery request. NOTE 25:	When Locality is configured in a specific NF (e.g. NSACF, MRF/MRFP/MF, EIF, etc.), the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF/SMF as service consumer of an NSACF, IMS entity as service consumer of an MRF/MRFP/MF, NEF/AF/PCF as service consumer of an EIF, etc.) may use a locally configured Locality of the target NF to discover the candidate NF, or otherwise may use its own Locality to discover the candidate NF. NOTE 26:	Only one of the target-nf-instance-id and target-nf-instance-id-list query parameters may be present in an NF Discovery Request. NOTE 27:	When the query parameter "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is used to discover a UPF as specified in clause 4.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the NRF shall find a match by looking into either natedIpv4AddressRanges or natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. NOTE 28:	If the NF service consumer includes a "tai-list" query parameter and the "nf-tai-list-ind" query parameter set to true, and if the NRF supports the same and the NRF is not able to find any NF supporting all TAs included in the tai-list, the NRF may return a list of NFs in the SearchResult where each NF supports at least one TA in the tai-list; in this case, the NRF should attempt to return a list of NFs that altogether support as many TAIs from the tai-list as possible, and it should indicate in the SearchResultInfo attribute the list of TAIs from the tai-list which are not supported by these NFs. NOTE 29:	The NRF should return as many matching NF profiles and/or NF Instance IDs as possible in the NF Discovery Response. If all the NF profiles matching the query parameters cannot be returned in the NF Discovery response (e.g. due to the maximum payload size), the NRF may decide to store the complete search result for subsequent retrieval by the NRF consumer (see clause 6.2.3.4). Alternatively, the NRF may include all the NF instance IDs rather than NF profiles in the NF Discovery response (using the Enh-NF-Discovery feature, see clause 5.3.2.2.2). NOTE 30:	For SMF discovery, when an AMF supports the "subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature as specified in clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and it receives the targetPlmnId as part of SmfSelectionSubscriptionData, it shall include the targetPlmnId as Operator Identifier in the DNN to select a SMF in that PLMN. NOTE 31:	In the case of Indirect Network Sharing deployments, the AMF may also include this parameter for discovery of the H-SMF in participating operator's network, based on the UE location as described in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. If including this parameter for the H-SMF discovery, the AMF shall be configured with the corresponding values for this parameter that are applicable for the participating operator's network based on the coordination between the hosting operator and the participating operator. How the AMF derives this parameter based on UE location is implementation specific. NOTE 32:	For AUSF/UDM discovery, when AUSF/UDM is deployed in partner PLMN, the NRF may further interact with the NRF in the target PLMN to discover the AUSF/UDM in that target PLMN based on the configuration for the Routing Indicators and/or SUPI ranges as specified in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3. NOTE 33:	A NF service consumer may use the UE IP address which may be set to either a "ue-ipv4-address" optionally together with an "ip-domain", or "ue-ipv6-prefix" to discover the serving PSA UPF (for that UE IP address). If the "ip-domain" is present, the NRF shall find a match by looking into the privateIpv4AddressRangesPerIpDomain in the DnnUpfInfoItem. When the "ip-domain" is not present, either "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is included to contain the UE IPv4 or IPv6 IP address respectively in the discovery request, the NRF shall find a match by looking into either the Ipv4AddressRanges or the natedIpv4AddressRanges, or the Ipv6PrefixRanges or the natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. (See also the NOTE 27 which is for the scenario using a NATed IP address to find the serving UPF) NOTE 34:	When upf-packet-inspection-func is used as query parameter, pre-Rel-19 UPFs which support the required packet inspection functionalities and match the other query parameters but cannot register such functionalities in NRF may not be returned. The use of the preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func query parameter should be preferred in deployments with such UPFs. NOTE 35:	P-CSCF discovery with these parameters shall only be allowed when the NRF support the "Enh-PCSCF-Disc" feature. NOTE 36:	This query parameter may be set e.g. by an AMF configured with a local offloading management service area to look up for SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for TAI(s) of the local offloading management service area.	NOTE 1:	If this parameter is present and no AMF supporting the requested GUAMI is available due to AMF Failure or planned AMF removal, the NRF shall return in the response AMF instances acting as a backup for AMF failure or planned AMF removal respectively for this GUAMI (see clause 6.1.6.2.11). The NRF can detect if an AMF has failed, using the Heartbeat procedure. The NRF will receive a de-registration request from an AMF performing a planned removal. NOTE 2:	If the combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the SMF instances registered with the SmfInfo containing pgwFqdn. NOTE 3:	If a UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the UPF instances registered with the upfInfo containing iwkEpsInd set to true. NOTE 4:	This attribute has a different semantic than what is defined in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], i.e. it is not used to signal the features of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API supported by the requester NF. NOTE 5:	The AMF may perform the SMF discovery based on the dnn, snssais and preferred-tai during a PDU session establishment procedure, and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles matching all if possible, or the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais. If the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais are returned, the AMF shall insert an I-SMF. An SMF may also perform a UPF discovery using this parameter. NOTE 6:	The SMF may select the P-CSCF close to the UPF by setting the preferred-locality to the value of the locality of the UPF. NOTE 7:	During EPS to 5GS idle mobility procedure, the Requester NF (i.e. SMF) discovers the anchor NEF for NIDD using the SCEF ID received from EPS as the value of the NEF ID, as specified in clause 4.11.1.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. NOTE 8:	The service consumer may include a list of preferred-nf-instance-ids in the query. If so, the NRF shall first check if the NF profiles of the preferred NF instances match the other query parameters, and if so, then the NRF shall return the corresponding NF profiles; otherwise, the NRF shall return a list of candidate NF profiles matching the query parameters other than the preferred-nf-instance-ids. For example, the target AMF may set this query parameter to the SMF Instance ID and I-SMF Instance ID during an inter AMF mobility procedure to select an I-SMF. NOTE 9:	This parameter may be used by the SCP (with other query parameters) to discover and select a NF service consumer with a default notification subscription supporting the notification type of a notification request (see clause 6.10.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). NOTE 10:	An S-NSSAI value used in discovery request query parameters shall be considered as matching the S-NSSAI value in the NF Profile or NF Service of a given NF Instance if both the SST and SD components are identical (i.e. an S-NSSAI value where SD is absent, shall not be considered as matching an S-NSSAI where SD is present, regardless if SST is equal in both). NOTE 11:	The dnn query parameter shall be considered as matching a DNN attribute in the NF Profile of a given NF Instance if: -	both contain the same Network Identifier and Operator Identifier; -	both contain the same Network Identifier and none contains an Operator Identifier; -	the dnn query parameter contains the Network Identifier only, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, and both contain the same Network Identifier; or -	the dnn query parameter contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains the Network Identifier only, both contain the same Network Identifier and the Operator Identifier matches one PLMN of the NF (i.e. plmnList of the NF Profile). NOTE 12:	Based on operator's policies, a discovery request not including the requester's information necessary to validate the authorization parameters in NF Profiles may be rejected or accepted but with only returning in the discovery response NF Instances whose authorization parameters allow any NF Service Consumer to access their services. The authorization parameters in NF Profile are those used by NRF to determine whether a given NF Instance / NF Service Instance can be discovered by an NF Service Consumer in order to consume its offered services (e.g. "allowedNfTypes", "allowedNfDomains", etc.). NOTE 13:	Different UPF instances for data forwarding may be configured in the network e.g. for different serving areas. The SMF may use this query parameter together with others (like SMF Serving Area or TAI) in discovery to select the UPF candidate for data forwarding. NOTE 14:	For HR roaming, if the V-PLMN requires Deployments Topologies with specific SMF Service Areas (DTSSA) but no H-SMF can be selected supporting V-SMF change, AMF may use this query parameter to select a V-SMF serving the full VPLMN if available. NOTE 15:	The AMF may perform discovery with this parameter to find V-SMF(s)/I-SMF(s), and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability, if the vsmf-support-ind/ismf-support-ind query parameter is present and set to true. When performing discovery, the AMF shall use other query parameters together with this IE to ensure the required configurations and/or features are supported by the V-SMF/I-SMF(s), e.g. required Slice for the PDU session, support of DTSSA feature if V-SMF change is required for PDU Session, etc. If no SMF instances that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability can be matched for the discovery, the NRF shall return matched SMF instances not indicating support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability explicitly, i.e. the SMF instances not registered vsmfSupportInd/ismfSupportInd IE in the NF profile but matched to the rest query parameters, if available. NOTE 16:	When required-pfcp-features is used as query parameter, the NRF shall return a list of candidate UPFs supporting all the required PFCP features. The NRF may also return UPF profiles not including the "SupportedPfcpFeatures" attribute (e.g. pre-Rel-17 UPFs) but matching the other query parameters. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. a SMF, when using required-pfcp-features as query parameter, shall also include the query parameter corresponding to the UPF features (atsss-capability, upf-ue-ip-addr-ind, redundant-gtpu) which correspond to the PFCP feature flags MPTCP and ATSSS_LL, UEIP, and RTTL respectively, if the corresponding PFCP feature is required. For example an SMF, that wishes to select a UPF supporting UE IP Address Allocation by the UP function, shall set the UEIP flag to "1" in the required-pfcp-features and also include the upf-ue-ip-addr-ind parameter set to "true". NOTE 17:	In this release, the usage of Home Network Public Key identifier for AUSF/UDM discovery is limited to the scenario where the AUSF/UDM NF consumers belong to the same PLMN as AUSF/UDM. NOTE 18:	The NF service consumer may derive the serving scope from e.g. the TAI of the UE, using local configuration. This parameter may be used to discover any NF that registers to the NRF, e.g. a 5GC NF or a P-CSCF. NOTE 19:	If the NRF supports the "Collocated-NF-Selection" feature and the NF service consumer has included the "preferred-collocated-nf-types" attribute, the NRF shall return a list of candidates NFs (for the target-nf-type) matching the discovery query parameters and preferentially supporting CollocatedNfType(s) as indicated in the preferred-collocated-nf-types. NOTE 20:	If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "true" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "false" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. NOTE 21:	Either pgw-ind IE or preferred-pgw-ind IE may be included in the discovery request. NOTE 22:	MB-SMF may use an NRF to discover the AMF(s) serving an MBS service area (see clause 7.3.1 in 3GPP TS 23.247 [43]. For this purpose, the MB-SMF may use query parameters specified in this table, e.g.  'tai' and 'service-names', or 'snssais', or any other parameters. NOTE 23:	This parameter may be set by an NF service consumer or SCP to filter-out specific NF (service) instances or NF (service) sets from the NF Discovery response, e.g. when the NFc knows that an NF service producer is not responsive or overloaded. See the 3gpp-Sbi-Selection-Info header in clause 5.2.3.3.10 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. NOTE 24:	A feature shall not be included in both required-features IE and preferred-features IE in the same discovery request. NOTE 25:	When Locality is configured in a specific NF (e.g. NSACF, MRF/MRFP/MF, EIF, etc.), the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF/SMF as service consumer of an NSACF, IMS entity as service consumer of an MRF/MRFP/MF, NEF/AF/PCF as service consumer of an EIF, etc.) may use a locally configured Locality of the target NF to discover the candidate NF, or otherwise may use its own Locality to discover the candidate NF. NOTE 26:	Only one of the target-nf-instance-id and target-nf-instance-id-list query parameters may be present in an NF Discovery Request. NOTE 27:	When the query parameter "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is used to discover a UPF as specified in clause 4.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the NRF shall find a match by looking into either natedIpv4AddressRanges or natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. NOTE 28:	If the NF service consumer includes a "tai-list" query parameter and the "nf-tai-list-ind" query parameter set to true, and if the NRF supports the same and the NRF is not able to find any NF supporting all TAs included in the tai-list, the NRF may return a list of NFs in the SearchResult where each NF supports at least one TA in the tai-list; in this case, the NRF should attempt to return a list of NFs that altogether support as many TAIs from the tai-list as possible, and it should indicate in the SearchResultInfo attribute the list of TAIs from the tai-list which are not supported by these NFs. NOTE 29:	The NRF should return as many matching NF profiles and/or NF Instance IDs as possible in the NF Discovery Response. If all the NF profiles matching the query parameters cannot be returned in the NF Discovery response (e.g. due to the maximum payload size), the NRF may decide to store the complete search result for subsequent retrieval by the NRF consumer (see clause 6.2.3.4). Alternatively, the NRF may include all the NF instance IDs rather than NF profiles in the NF Discovery response (using the Enh-NF-Discovery feature, see clause 5.3.2.2.2). NOTE 30:	For SMF discovery, when an AMF supports the "subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature as specified in clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and it receives the targetPlmnId as part of SmfSelectionSubscriptionData, it shall include the targetPlmnId as Operator Identifier in the DNN to select a SMF in that PLMN. NOTE 31:	In the case of Indirect Network Sharing deployments, the AMF may also include this parameter for discovery of the H-SMF in participating operator's network, based on the UE location as described in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. If including this parameter for the H-SMF discovery, the AMF shall be configured with the corresponding values for this parameter that are applicable for the participating operator's network based on the coordination between the hosting operator and the participating operator. How the AMF derives this parameter based on UE location is implementation specific. NOTE 32:	For AUSF/UDM discovery, when AUSF/UDM is deployed in partner PLMN, the NRF may further interact with the NRF in the target PLMN to discover the AUSF/UDM in that target PLMN based on the configuration for the Routing Indicators and/or SUPI ranges as specified in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3. NOTE 33:	A NF service consumer may use the UE IP address which may be set to either a "ue-ipv4-address" optionally together with an "ip-domain", or "ue-ipv6-prefix" to discover the serving PSA UPF (for that UE IP address). If the "ip-domain" is present, the NRF shall find a match by looking into the privateIpv4AddressRangesPerIpDomain in the DnnUpfInfoItem. When the "ip-domain" is not present, either "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is included to contain the UE IPv4 or IPv6 IP address respectively in the discovery request, the NRF shall find a match by looking into either the Ipv4AddressRanges or the natedIpv4AddressRanges, or the Ipv6PrefixRanges or the natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. (See also the NOTE 27 which is for the scenario using a NATed IP address to find the serving UPF) NOTE 34:	When upf-packet-inspection-func is used as query parameter, pre-Rel-19 UPFs which support the required packet inspection functionalities and match the other query parameters but cannot register such functionalities in NRF may not be returned. The use of the preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func query parameter should be preferred in deployments with such UPFs. NOTE 35:	P-CSCF discovery with these parameters shall only be allowed when the NRF support the "Enh-PCSCF-Disc" feature. NOTE 36:	This query parameter may be set e.g. by an AMF configured with a local offloading management service area to look up for SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for TAI(s) of the local offloading management service area.	NOTE 1:	If this parameter is present and no AMF supporting the requested GUAMI is available due to AMF Failure or planned AMF removal, the NRF shall return in the response AMF instances acting as a backup for AMF failure or planned AMF removal respectively for this GUAMI (see clause 6.1.6.2.11). The NRF can detect if an AMF has failed, using the Heartbeat procedure. The NRF will receive a de-registration request from an AMF performing a planned removal. NOTE 2:	If the combined SMF/PGW-C is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the SMF instances registered with the SmfInfo containing pgwFqdn. NOTE 3:	If a UPF supporting interworking with EPS is requested to be discovered, the NRF shall return in the response the UPF instances registered with the upfInfo containing iwkEpsInd set to true. NOTE 4:	This attribute has a different semantic than what is defined in clause 6.6.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4], i.e. it is not used to signal the features of the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API supported by the requester NF. NOTE 5:	The AMF may perform the SMF discovery based on the dnn, snssais and preferred-tai during a PDU session establishment procedure, and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles matching all if possible, or the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais. If the SMF profiles only matching dnn and snssais are returned, the AMF shall insert an I-SMF. An SMF may also perform a UPF discovery using this parameter. NOTE 6:	The SMF may select the P-CSCF close to the UPF by setting the preferred-locality to the value of the locality of the UPF. NOTE 7:	During EPS to 5GS idle mobility procedure, the Requester NF (i.e. SMF) discovers the anchor NEF for NIDD using the SCEF ID received from EPS as the value of the NEF ID, as specified in clause 4.11.1.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. NOTE 8:	The service consumer may include a list of preferred-nf-instance-ids in the query. If so, the NRF shall first check if the NF profiles of the preferred NF instances match the other query parameters, and if so, then the NRF shall return the corresponding NF profiles; otherwise, the NRF shall return a list of candidate NF profiles matching the query parameters other than the preferred-nf-instance-ids. For example, the target AMF may set this query parameter to the SMF Instance ID and I-SMF Instance ID during an inter AMF mobility procedure to select an I-SMF. NOTE 9:	This parameter may be used by the SCP (with other query parameters) to discover and select a NF service consumer with a default notification subscription supporting the notification type of a notification request (see clause 6.10.3.3 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]). NOTE 10:	An S-NSSAI value used in discovery request query parameters shall be considered as matching the S-NSSAI value in the NF Profile or NF Service of a given NF Instance if both the SST and SD components are identical (i.e. an S-NSSAI value where SD is absent, shall not be considered as matching an S-NSSAI where SD is present, regardless if SST is equal in both). NOTE 11:	The dnn query parameter shall be considered as matching a DNN attribute in the NF Profile of a given NF Instance if: -	both contain the same Network Identifier and Operator Identifier; -	both contain the same Network Identifier and none contains an Operator Identifier; -	the dnn query parameter contains the Network Identifier only, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, and both contain the same Network Identifier; or -	the dnn query parameter contains both the Network Identifier and Operator Identifier, the DNN value in the NF Profile contains the Network Identifier only, both contain the same Network Identifier and the Operator Identifier matches one PLMN of the NF (i.e. plmnList of the NF Profile). NOTE 12:	Based on operator's policies, a discovery request not including the requester's information necessary to validate the authorization parameters in NF Profiles may be rejected or accepted but with only returning in the discovery response NF Instances whose authorization parameters allow any NF Service Consumer to access their services. The authorization parameters in NF Profile are those used by NRF to determine whether a given NF Instance / NF Service Instance can be discovered by an NF Service Consumer in order to consume its offered services (e.g. "allowedNfTypes", "allowedNfDomains", etc.). NOTE 13:	Different UPF instances for data forwarding may be configured in the network e.g. for different serving areas. The SMF may use this query parameter together with others (like SMF Serving Area or TAI) in discovery to select the UPF candidate for data forwarding. NOTE 14:	For HR roaming, if the V-PLMN requires Deployments Topologies with specific SMF Service Areas (DTSSA) but no H-SMF can be selected supporting V-SMF change, AMF may use this query parameter to select a V-SMF serving the full VPLMN if available. NOTE 15:	The AMF may perform discovery with this parameter to find V-SMF(s)/I-SMF(s), and the NRF shall return the SMF profiles that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability, if the vsmf-support-ind/ismf-support-ind query parameter is present and set to true. When performing discovery, the AMF shall use other query parameters together with this IE to ensure the required configurations and/or features are supported by the V-SMF/I-SMF(s), e.g. required Slice for the PDU session, support of DTSSA feature if V-SMF change is required for PDU Session, etc. If no SMF instances that explicitly indicated support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability can be matched for the discovery, the NRF shall return matched SMF instances not indicating support of V-SMF/I-SMF(s) capability explicitly, i.e. the SMF instances not registered vsmfSupportInd/ismfSupportInd IE in the NF profile but matched to the rest query parameters, if available. NOTE 16:	When required-pfcp-features is used as query parameter, the NRF shall return a list of candidate UPFs supporting all the required PFCP features. The NRF may also return UPF profiles not including the "SupportedPfcpFeatures" attribute (e.g. pre-Rel-17 UPFs) but matching the other query parameters. The NF Service Consumer, e.g. a SMF, when using required-pfcp-features as query parameter, shall also include the query parameter corresponding to the UPF features (atsss-capability, upf-ue-ip-addr-ind, redundant-gtpu) which correspond to the PFCP feature flags MPTCP and ATSSS_LL, UEIP, and RTTL respectively, if the corresponding PFCP feature is required. For example an SMF, that wishes to select a UPF supporting UE IP Address Allocation by the UP function, shall set the UEIP flag to "1" in the required-pfcp-features and also include the upf-ue-ip-addr-ind parameter set to "true". NOTE 17:	In this release, the usage of Home Network Public Key identifier for AUSF/UDM discovery is limited to the scenario where the AUSF/UDM NF consumers belong to the same PLMN as AUSF/UDM. NOTE 18:	The NF service consumer may derive the serving scope from e.g. the TAI of the UE, using local configuration. This parameter may be used to discover any NF that registers to the NRF, e.g. a 5GC NF or a P-CSCF. NOTE 19:	If the NRF supports the "Collocated-NF-Selection" feature and the NF service consumer has included the "preferred-collocated-nf-types" attribute, the NRF shall return a list of candidates NFs (for the target-nf-type) matching the discovery query parameters and preferentially supporting CollocatedNfType(s) as indicated in the preferred-collocated-nf-types. NOTE 20:	If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "true" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If the NRF supports this IE and the NF service consumer has included this IE with the value "false" in discovery request, the NRF shall look up and return standalone SMF instances matching the other query parameters. If no matching is found, the NRF shall return a list of PGW-C+SMF instances matching the other query parameters. NOTE 21:	Either pgw-ind IE or preferred-pgw-ind IE may be included in the discovery request. NOTE 22:	MB-SMF may use an NRF to discover the AMF(s) serving an MBS service area (see clause 7.3.1 in 3GPP TS 23.247 [43]. For this purpose, the MB-SMF may use query parameters specified in this table, e.g.  'tai' and 'service-names', or 'snssais', or any other parameters. NOTE 23:	This parameter may be set by an NF service consumer or SCP to filter-out specific NF (service) instances or NF (service) sets from the NF Discovery response, e.g. when the NFc knows that an NF service producer is not responsive or overloaded. See the 3gpp-Sbi-Selection-Info header in clause 5.2.3.3.10 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]. NOTE 24:	A feature shall not be included in both required-features IE and preferred-features IE in the same discovery request. NOTE 25:	When Locality is configured in a specific NF (e.g. NSACF, MRF/MRFP/MF, EIF, etc.), the NF service consumer (e.g. AMF/SMF as service consumer of an NSACF, IMS entity as service consumer of an MRF/MRFP/MF, NEF/AF/PCF as service consumer of an EIF, etc.) may use a locally configured Locality of the target NF to discover the candidate NF, or otherwise may use its own Locality to discover the candidate NF. NOTE 26:	Only one of the target-nf-instance-id and target-nf-instance-id-list query parameters may be present in an NF Discovery Request. NOTE 27:	When the query parameter "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is used to discover a UPF as specified in clause 4.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the NRF shall find a match by looking into either natedIpv4AddressRanges or natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. NOTE 28:	If the NF service consumer includes a "tai-list" query parameter and the "nf-tai-list-ind" query parameter set to true, and if the NRF supports the same and the NRF is not able to find any NF supporting all TAs included in the tai-list, the NRF may return a list of NFs in the SearchResult where each NF supports at least one TA in the tai-list; in this case, the NRF should attempt to return a list of NFs that altogether support as many TAIs from the tai-list as possible, and it should indicate in the SearchResultInfo attribute the list of TAIs from the tai-list which are not supported by these NFs. NOTE 29:	The NRF should return as many matching NF profiles and/or NF Instance IDs as possible in the NF Discovery Response. If all the NF profiles matching the query parameters cannot be returned in the NF Discovery response (e.g. due to the maximum payload size), the NRF may decide to store the complete search result for subsequent retrieval by the NRF consumer (see clause 6.2.3.4). Alternatively, the NRF may include all the NF instance IDs rather than NF profiles in the NF Discovery response (using the Enh-NF-Discovery feature, see clause 5.3.2.2.2). NOTE 30:	For SMF discovery, when an AMF supports the "subscription-based routing to a target core network" feature as specified in clause 5.48 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and it receives the targetPlmnId as part of SmfSelectionSubscriptionData, it shall include the targetPlmnId as Operator Identifier in the DNN to select a SMF in that PLMN. NOTE 31:	In the case of Indirect Network Sharing deployments, the AMF may also include this parameter for discovery of the H-SMF in participating operator's network, based on the UE location as described in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3]. If including this parameter for the H-SMF discovery, the AMF shall be configured with the corresponding values for this parameter that are applicable for the participating operator's network based on the coordination between the hosting operator and the participating operator. How the AMF derives this parameter based on UE location is implementation specific. NOTE 32:	For AUSF/UDM discovery, when AUSF/UDM is deployed in partner PLMN, the NRF may further interact with the NRF in the target PLMN to discover the AUSF/UDM in that target PLMN based on the configuration for the Routing Indicators and/or SUPI ranges as specified in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3. NOTE 33:	A NF service consumer may use the UE IP address which may be set to either a "ue-ipv4-address" optionally together with an "ip-domain", or "ue-ipv6-prefix" to discover the serving PSA UPF (for that UE IP address). If the "ip-domain" is present, the NRF shall find a match by looking into the privateIpv4AddressRangesPerIpDomain in the DnnUpfInfoItem. When the "ip-domain" is not present, either "ue-ipv4-address" or "ue-ipv6-prefix" is included to contain the UE IPv4 or IPv6 IP address respectively in the discovery request, the NRF shall find a match by looking into either the Ipv4AddressRanges or the natedIpv4AddressRanges, or the Ipv6PrefixRanges or the natedIpv6PrefixRanges in the DnnUpfInfoItem. (See also the NOTE 27 which is for the scenario using a NATed IP address to find the serving UPF) NOTE 34:	When upf-packet-inspection-func is used as query parameter, pre-Rel-19 UPFs which support the required packet inspection functionalities and match the other query parameters but cannot register such functionalities in NRF may not be returned. The use of the preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func query parameter should be preferred in deployments with such UPFs. NOTE 35:	P-CSCF discovery with these parameters shall only be allowed when the NRF support the "Enh-PCSCF-Disc" feature. NOTE 36:	This query parameter may be set e.g. by an AMF configured with a local offloading management service area to look up for SMF profiles that support acting as I-SMF for TAI(s) of the local offloading management service area.


When certain query parameters in the discovery request are not supported by the NRF, the NRF shall ignore the unsupported query parameters and continue processing the request with the supported query parameters. The default logical relationship among the supported query parameters is logical "AND", i.e. all the provided query parameters shall be matched, with the exception of the "preferred-locality", "ext-preferred-locality", "preferred-nf-instances", "preferred-tai", "preferred-api-versions", "preferred-full-plmn", "preferred-collocated-nf-types", "preferred-pgw-ind", "preferred-analytics-delays", "preferred-features", "mbs-session-id", "ind-com-with-del-disc", "ind-com-wo-del-disc", "preferred-upf-packet-inspection-func" and "preferred-operator-config-capabilities" query parameters (see Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-1).
The NRF may support the Complex query expression as defined in 3GPP TS 29.501 [5] for the NF Discovery service. If the "complexQuery" query parameter is included, then the logical relationship among the query parameters contained in "complexQuery" query parameter is as defined in 3GPP TS 29.571 [7].
A NRF not supporting Complex query expression shall reject a NF service discovery request including a complexQuery parameter, with a ProblemDetails IE including the cause attribute set to INVALID_QUERY_PARAM and the invalidParams attribute indicating the complexQuery parameter.
This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.1.3.2.3.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.1.3.2.3.1-3.
Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a			


Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Response codes	Description
SearchResult	M	1	200 OK	The response body contains the result of the search over the list of registered NF Instances.
RedirectResponse	O	0..1	307 Temporary Redirect	The response shall be used when the NRF redirects the service discovery request temporarily. The NRF shall include in this response a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF. If an SCP redirects the message to another SCP then the location header field shall contain the same URI or a different URI pointing to the endpoint of the NF service producer to which the request should be sent.
RedirectResponse	O	0..1	308 Permanent Redirect	The response shall be used when the NRF redirects the service discovery request permanently. The NRF shall include in this response a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF. If an SCP redirects the message to another SCP then the location header field shall contain the same URI or a different URI pointing to the endpoint of the NF service producer to which the request should be sent.
ProblemDetails	O	0..1	400 Bad Request	The response body contains the error reason of the request message.  If the query parameter used to match the authorization parameter is required but not provided in the NF discovery request, the "cause" attribute shall be set to "MANDATORY_QUERY_PARAM_MISSING", and the missing query parameter shall be indicated.  The "cause" attribute shall be set to "INVALID_CLIENT" if some or all attributes of the NF Service Consumer in query parameters do not match the requester information in, e.g. its public key certificate.
ProblemDetails	O	0..1	403 Forbidden	This response shall be returned if the Requester NF is not allowed to discover the NF Service(s) being queried.
ProblemDetails	O	0..1	404 Not Found	This response shall be returned if the requested resource URI as defined in clause 6.2.3.2.2 (query parameter not considered) is not found in the server.  It may also be sent in hierarchical NRF deployments when the NRF needs to forward/redirect the request to another NRF but lacks information in the request to do so; similarly, the NRF shall return this response code when it is received from the upstream NRF.
ProblemDetails	O	0..1	500 Internal Server Error	The response body contains the error reason of the request message.


Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-4: Headers supported by the GET method on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
If-None-Match	string	C	0..1	Validator for conditional requests, as described in IETF RFC 9110 [40], clause 13.1.2
Accept-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-5: Headers supported by the 200 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Cache-Control	string	C	0..1	Cache-Control containing max-age, described in IETF RFC 9111 [20], clause 5.2
ETag	string	C	0..1	Entity Tag containing a strong validator, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40], clause 8.8.3
Content-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Content-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-6: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF


Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-7: Links supported by the 200 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Resource name	HTTP method or custom operation	Link parameter(s)	Description
search	Stored Search (Document)	GET	searchId in Table 6.2.3.3.2-1	The 'searchId' parameter returned in the response can be used as the 'searchId' parameter in the GET request to '/searches/{searchId}'
completeSearch	Complete Stored Search (Document)	GET	searchId in Table 6.2.3.4.2-1	The 'searchId' parameter returned in the response can be used as the 'searchId' parameter in the GET request to '/searches/{searchId}/complete'


Table 6.2.3.2.3.1-8: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF


6.2.3.2.4	Resource Custom Operations
There are no resource custom operations for the Nnrf_NFDiscovery service in this release of the specification.
6.2.3.3	Resource: Stored Search (Document)
6.2.3.3.1	Description
This resource represents a search result (i.e. a number of discovered NF Instances), stored by NRF as a consequence of a prior search result.
This resource is modelled as the Document resource archetype (see clause C.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
6.2.3.3.2	Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/searches/{searchId}
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.3.3.2-1.
Table 6.2.3.3.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource

Name	Data type	Definition
apiRoot	string	See clause 6.1.1
searchId	string	Identifier of a stored search result, returned by NRF to the NF Consumer in the original response to the NF Discovery GET operation (see clause 6.2.6.2.2).


6.2.3.3.2.1	GET
This method retrieves the NF Instances corresponding to a given stored search result.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.3.3.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a				


This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.3.2.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.3.2.1-3.
Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a			


Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Response codes	Description
StoredSearchResult	M	1	200 OK	The response body contains the NF Instances corresponding to a given stored search result.
RedirectResponse	O	0..1	307 Temporary Redirect	The response shall be used when the NRF redirects the service discovery request temporarily. The NRF shall include in this response a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF. If an SCP redirects the message to another SCP then the location header field shall contain the same URI or a different URI pointing to the endpoint of the NF service producer to which the request should be sent.
RedirectResponse	O	0..1	308 Permanent Redirect	The response shall be used when the NRF redirects the service discovery request permanently. The NRF shall include in this response a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF. If an SCP redirects the message to another SCP then the location header field shall contain the same URI or a different URI pointing to the endpoint of the NF service producer to which the request should be sent.
NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).


Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-4: Headers supported by the GET method on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Accept-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-5: Headers supported by the 200 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Cache-Control	string	C	0..1	Cache-Control containing max-age, described in IETF RFC 9111 [20], clause 5.2
ETag	string	C	0..1	Entity Tag containing a strong validator, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40], clause 8.8.3
Content-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Content-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-6: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF


Table 6.2.3.3.2.1-7: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF


6.2.3.4	Resource: Complete Stored Search (Document)
6.2.3.4.1	Description
This resource represents a complete search result (i.e. a number of discovered NF Instances), stored by NRF as a consequence of a prior search result, but without applying any client restrictions in terms of the number of instances to be returned (i.e. "limit" or "max-payload-size" query parameters).
This resource is modelled as the Document resource archetype (see clause C.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
6.2.3.4.2	Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/searches/{searchId}/complete
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.3.4.2-1.
Table 6.2.3.4.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource

Name	Data type	Definition
apiRoot	string	See clause 6.1.1
searchId	string	Identifier of a stored search result, returned by NRF to the NF Consumer in the original response to the NF Discovery GET operation (see clause 6.2.6.2.2).


6.2.3.4.2.1	GET
This method retrieves the NF Instances corresponding to a given stored search result.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.3.4.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a				


This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.4.2.1-2 and the response data structures and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.4.3.1-3.
Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a			


Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Response codes	Description
StoredSearchResult	M	1	200 OK	The response body contains the NF Instances corresponding to a given stored search result, but without applying any client restrictions in terms of the number of instances to be returned (i.e. "limit" or "max-payload-size" query parameters).
RedirectResponse	O	0..1	307 Temporary Redirect	The response shall be used when the NRF redirects the service discovery request temporarily. The NRF shall include in this response a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF. If an SCP redirects the message to another SCP then the location header field shall contain the same URI or a different URI pointing to the endpoint of the NF service producer to which the request should be sent.
RedirectResponse	O	0..1	308 Permanent Redirect	The response shall be used when the NRF redirects the service discovery request permanently. The NRF shall include in this response a Location header field containing a URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF. If an SCP redirects the message to another SCP then the location header field shall contain the same URI or a different URI pointing to the endpoint of the NF service producer to which the request should be sent.
NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).


Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-4: Headers supported by the GET method on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Accept-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-5: Headers supported by the 200 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Cache-Control	string	C	0..1	Cache-Control containing max-age, described in IETF RFC 9111 [20], clause 5.2
ETag	string	C	0..1	Entity Tag containing a strong validator, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40], clause 8.8.3
Content-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Content-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-6: Headers supported by the 307 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF


Table 6.2.3.4.2.1-7: Headers supported by the 308 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	The URI pointing to the resource located on the redirect target NRF


6.2.3.5	Resource: SCP Domain Routing Information (Document)
6.2.3.5.1	Description
This resource represents (local) SCP Domain Routing Information, calculated by NRF based on SCPs registered in the network (or in the producer NRF for local SCP Domain Routing Information).
This resource is modelled as the Document resource archetype (see clause C.3 of 3GPP TS 29.501 [5]).
6.2.3.5.2	Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/scp-domain-routing-info
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.3.5.2-1.
Table 6.2.3.5.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource

Name	Data type	Definition
apiRoot	string	See clause 6.2.1


6.2.3.5.2.1	GET
This method retrieves the (local) SCP Domain Routing Information.
This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.3.5.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.3.5.2.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the GET method on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
local	boolean	O	0..1	When present, this IE shall indicate whether local SCP Domain Routing Information is to be fetched: - true: local SCP Domain Routing Information to be fetched. - false (default): SCP Domain Routing Information to be fetched


This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.5.2.1-2 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.5.2.1-3.
Table 6.2.3.5.2.1-2: Data structures supported by the GET Request Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a			


Table 6.2.3.5.2.1-3: Data structures supported by the GET Response Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Response codes	Description
ScpDomainRoutingInfo	M	1	200 OK	The response body contains SCP Domain Routing Information.
NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the GET method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).


Table 6.2.3.5.2.1-4: Headers supported by the GET method on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Accept-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.5.2.1-5: Headers supported by the 200 Response Code on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Content-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Content-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


6.2.3.6	Resource: SCP Domain Routing Information Subscriptions (Collection)
6.2.3.6.1	Description
This resource represents a collection of subscriptions of (local) SCP Domain Routing Information.
6.2.3.6.2	Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/scp-domain-routing-info-subs
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.3.6.2-1.
Table 6.1.3.6.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource

Name	Data type	Definition
apiRoot	string	See clause 6.2.1


6.2.3.6.3	Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.6.3.1	POST
This method creates a new subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.1-1.
Table 6.2.3.6.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the POST method on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a				


This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.1-2 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.6.3.1-3.
Table 6.2.3.6.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the POST Request Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
ScpDomainRoutingInfoSubscription	M	1	The request body contains the input parameters for the subscription.


Table 6.2.3.6.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the POST Response Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Response codes	Description
ScpDomainRoutingInfoSubscription	M	1	201 Created	This case represents the successful creation of a subscription.  Upon success, the HTTP response shall include a "Location" HTTP header that contains the resource URI of the created resource.
NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the POST method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).


Table 6.2.3.6.3.1-4: Headers supported by the 201 Response Code on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Location	string	M	1	Contains the URI of the newly created resource, according to the structure: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/scp-domain-routing-info-subs/{subscriptionId}
Content-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Content-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]
Accept-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


Table 6.2.3.6.3.1-5: Headers supported by the POST method on this endpoint

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
Content-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]
Accept-Encoding	string	O	0..1	Accept-Encoding, described in IETF RFC 9110 [40]


6.2.3.7	Resource: Individual SCP Domain Routing Information Subscription (Document)
6.2.3.7.1	Description
This resource represents an individual subscription of (local) SCP Domain Routing Information.
6.2.3.7.2	Resource Definition
Resource URI: {apiRoot}/nnrf-disc/v1/scp-domain-routing-info-subs/{subscriptionID}
This resource shall support the resource URI variables defined in table 6.2.3.7.2-1.
Table 6.2.3.7.2-1: Resource URI variables for this resource

Name	Data type	Definition
apiRoot	string	See clause 6.2.1
subscriptionID	string	Represents a specific subscription


6.2.3.7.3	Resource Standard Methods
6.2.3.7.3.1	DELETE
This method terminates an existing subscription. This method shall support the URI query parameters specified in table 6.2.3.7.3.1-1.
Table 6.2.3.7.3.1-1: URI query parameters supported by the DELETE method on this resource

Name	Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a				


This method shall support the request data structures specified in table 6.2.3.7.3.1-2 and the response data structure and response codes specified in table 6.2.3.7.3.1-3.
Table 6.2.3.7.3.1-2: Data structures supported by the DELETE Request Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Description
n/a			


Table 6.2.3.7.3.1-3: Data structures supported by the DELETE Response Body on this resource

Data type	P	Cardinality	Response codes	Description
n/a			204 No Content	
NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).	NOTE:	The mandatory HTTP error status codes for the DELETE method listed in Table 5.2.7.1-1 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] other than those specified in the table above also apply, with a ProblemDetails data type (see clause 5.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4]).

